



Produced by Joshua Hutchinson, Steve Schulze
and PG Distributed Proofreaders






  +--------------------------------------------------------------+
  |                           CONANT's                           |
  |                        PATENT BINDERS                        |
  |                             FOR                              |
  |                        "PUNCHINELLO,"                        |
  |                                                              |
  | to preserve the paper for binding, will be sent prepaid, on  |
  |                  receipt of One Dollar, by                   |
  |                                                              |
  |                 PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO.,                  |
  |                                                              |
  |               83 Nassau Street, New York City.               |
  |                                                              |
  +--------------------------------------------------------------+
  |                                                              |
  |                        J. M. SPRAGUE                         |
  |                                                              |
  |                  Is the Authorized Agent of                  |
  |                                                              |
  |                        "PUNCHINELLO"                         |
  |                                                              |
  |                           For the                            |
  |                                                              |
  |                     New England States,                      |
  |                                                              |
  |                  To Procure Subscriptions,                   |
  |                  and to Employ Canvassers.                   |
  |                                                              |
  +--------------------------------------------------------------+
  |                                                              |
  |                  HARRISON BRADFORD & CO.'S                   |
  |                         STEEL PENS.                          |
  |                                                              |
  |     These Pens are of a finer quality, more durable, and     |
  | cheaper than any other Pen in the market. Special attention  |
  |  is called to the following grades, as being better suited   |
  |     for business purposes than any Pen manufactured. The     |
  |                                                              |
  |            "505," "22," and the "Anti-Corrosive,"            |
  |            we recommend for Bank and Office use.             |
  |                                                              |
  |                      D. APPLETON & CO.,                      |
  |                Sole Agents for United States.                |
  |                                                              |
  +--------------------------------------------------------------+



 Vol. 1. No. 19.


PUNCHINELLO



SATURDAY, AUGUST 6, 1870.


PUBLISHED BY THE

PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING COMPANY,


83 NASSAU STREET, NEW YORK.


       *       *       *       *       *

THE MYSTERY OF MR. E. DROOD, By ORPHEUS C. KERR,
Continued in this Number.

       *       *       *       *       *

See 15th Page for Extra Premiums.

  +--------------------------------------------------------------+
  |                                                              |
  |               APPLICATIONS FOR ADVERTISING IN                |
  |                                                              |
  |                        "PUNCHINELLO"                         |
  |                                                              |
  |                    SHOULD BE ADDRESSED TO                    |
  |                                                              |
  |                        J. NICKINSON,                         |
  |                                                              |
  |                         ROOM NO. 4,                          |
  |                                                              |
  |                    No. 83 Nassau Street.                     |
  |                                                              |
  +--------------------------------------------------------------+
  |                                                              |
  |                       What it is Not!                        |
  |                                                              |
  |                  The College Courant is NOT                  |
  |                  The College Courant is NOT                  |
  |                  The College Courant is NOT                  |
  |                  The College Courant is NOT                  |
  |                  The College Courant is NOT                  |
  |                  The College Courant is NOT                  |
  |                  The College Courant is NOT                  |
  |                  The College Courant is NOT                  |
  |                                                              |
  |Merely a small student's sheet,    But is the largest in N. E.|
  |Merely of interest to college men, But to every one.          |
  |Merely a COLLEGE paper,            But is a scientific paper. |
  |Merely a local paper,              But is cosmopolitan.       |
  |Merely scientific and educational, But is literary.           |
  |An experiment,                     But an established weekly. |
  |Conducted by students,             But by graduates.          |
  |Stale and dry,                     But fresh and interesting. |
  |                                                              |
  |               It circulates in every College.                |
  |         It circulates in every Professional School.          |
  |          It circulates in every Preparatory School.          |
  |      It circulates in every State in the United States.      |
  |          It circulates in every civilized country.           |
  |             It circulates among all College men.             |
  |           It circulates among all Scientific men.            |
  |         It circulates among the educated everywhere.         |
  |                                                              |
  |               July 1st a new volume commences.               |
  |           July 1st 10,000 new subscribers wanted.            |
  |        July 1st excellent illustrations will appear.         |
  |        July 1st 10,000 specimen copies to be issued.         |
  |            July 1st is a good time to subscribe.             |
  |         July 1st or any time send stamp for a copy.          |
  |                                                              |
  |                            TERMS:                            |
  |                                                              |
  |  One year, in advance,  -   -   -   -   -   -   -    $4.00   |
  |  Single copies (for sale by all newsdealers), -  -  -  .10   |
  |                                                              |
  |                           Address                            |
  |                     THE COLLEGE COURANT,                     |
  |                       New Haven, Conn.                       |
  |                                                              |
  +--------------------------------------------------------------+
  |                                                              |
  |                         J. NICKINSON                         |
  |                                                              |
  |              begs to announce to the friends of              |
  |                                                              |
  |                        "PUNCHINELLO,"                        |
  |                                                              |
  | residing in the country, that, for their convenience, he has |
  |    made arrangements by which, on receipt of the price of    |
  |                                                              |
  |                 ANY STANDARD BOOK PUBLISHED,                 |
  |                                                              |
  |          the same will be forwarded, postage paid.           |
  |                                                              |
  | Parties desiring Catalogues of any of our Publishing Houses, |
  |     can have the same forwarded by inclosing two stamps.     |
  |                                                              |
  |                          OFFICE OF                           |
  |                                                              |
  |                 PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO.,                  |
  |                                                              |
  |                      83 Nassau Street.                       |
  |                                                              |
  |                        P.O. Box 2783.                        |
  |                                                              |
  +--------------------------------------------------------------+
  |                                                              |
  |                         NEWS DEALERS                         |
  |                                                              |
  |                              ON                              |
  |                                                              |
  |                          RAILROADS,                          |
  |                                                              |
  |                         STEAMBOATS,                          |
  |                                                              |
  |                            And at                            |
  |                       WATERING PLACES,                       |
  |                                                              |
  |               Will find the Monthly Numbers of               |
  |                                                              |
  |                        "PUNCHINELLO"                         |
  |                                                              |
  |      For April, May, June, and July, an attractive and       |
  |                        Saleable Work.                        |
  |                                                              |
  |                 Single Copies Price 50 cts.                  |
  |                                                              |
  |        For trade price address American News Co., or         |
  |                                                              |
  |                 PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO.,                  |
  |                                                              |
  |                      83 Nassau Street.                       |
  |                                                              |
  +--------------------------------------------------------------+
  |                                                              |
  |                       TO NEWS-DEALERS.                       |
  |                                                              |
  |                    Punchinello's Monthly.                    |
  |                                                              |
  |                 The Weekly Numbers for July,                 |
  |                                                              |
  |                  Bound in a Handsome Cover,                  |
  |                                                              |
  |               Is now ready. Price Fifty Cents.               |
  |                                                              |
  |                          THE TRADE                           |
  |                                                              |
  |                       Supplied by the                        |
  |                                                              |
  |                    AMERICAN NEWS COMPANY,                    |
  |                                                              |
  |           Who are now prepared to receive Orders.            |
  |                                                              |
  +--------------------------------------------------------------+
  |                                                              |
  |                                                              |
  |                     A. T. STEWART & CO.                      |
  |                                                              |
  |                         Are offering                         |
  |                                                              |
  |                    A SPLENDID ASSORTMENT                     |
  |                            OF THE                            |
  |                   LATEST PARIS NOVELTIES,                    |
  |                              IN                              |
  |                  ROMAN, ECOSSAIS, CARREAUX,                  |
  |                     BROCHE, CHINE, GROS                      |
  |                      GRAIN AND TAFFETA                       |
  |                                                              |
  |                        SASH RIBBONS,                         |
  |               IN THE MOST DESIRABLE WIDTHS AND               |
  |                    SHADES OF COLOR. Also,                    |
  |                                                              |
  |              Velvet Ribbons, Trimming Ribbons,               |
  |                      Neckties, &c., &c.                      |
  |                                                              |
  |              _Great Inducements to Purchasers._              |
  |                                                              |
  |                          BROADWAY,                           |
  |                                                              |
  |                 4th Ave., 9th and 10th Sts.                  |
  |                                                              |
  +--------------------------------------------------------------+
  |                                                              |
  |                       WEVILL & HAMMAR,                       |
  |                                                              |
  |                       Wood Engravers,                        |
  |                                                              |
  |                        208 BROADWAY,                         |
  |                                                              |
  |                          NEW YORK.                           |
  |                                                              |
  +--------------------------------------------------------------+
  |                                                              |
  |                  Bowling Green Savings-Bank                  |
  |                                                              |
  |                         33 BROADWAY,                         |
  |                                                              |
  |                          NEW YORK.                           |
  |                                                              |
  |            Open Every Day from 10 A.M. to 3 P.M.             |
  |                                                              |
  |             _Deposits of any sum, from Ten Cents             |
  |         to Ten Thousand Dollars, will be received._          |
  |                                                              |
  |                    Six per Cent interest,                    |
  |                   Free of Government Tax.                    |
  |                                                              |
  |                   INTEREST ON NEW DEPOSITS                   |
  |            Commences on the First of every Month.            |
  |                                                              |
  |                    HENRY SMITH, President                    |
  |                                                              |
  |                 REEVES E. SELMES, Secretary.                 |
  |                                                              |
  |        WALTER ROCHE, EDWARD HOGAN, _Vice-Presidents._        |
  |                                                              |
  +--------------------------------------------------------------+
  |                                                              |
  |                       FORST & AVERELL                        |
  |                                                              |
  |             Steam, Lithograph, and Letter Press              |
  |                                                              |
  |                          PRINTERS,                           |
  |               EMBOSSERS, ENGRAVERS, AND LABEL                |
  |                        MANUFACTURERS.                        |
  |                                                              |
  |      Sketches and Estimates furnished upon application.      |
  |                                                              |
  |                     23 Platt Street, and                     |
  |                      20-22 Gold Street,                      |
  |                                                              |
  |                       [P.O. Box 2845.]                       |
  |                                                              |
  |                          NEW YORK.                           |
  |                                                              |
  +--------------------------------------------------------------+
  |                                                              |
  |                         DIBBLEEANIA,                         |
  |                                                              |
  |                             AND                              |
  |                                                              |
  |                       Japonica Juice,                        |
  |                                                              |
  |                        FOR THE HAIR.                         |
  |                                                              |
  |  The most effective Soothing and Stimulating Compounds ever  |
  |  offered to the public for the Removal of Scurf, Dandruff,   |
  |                             &c.                              |
  |                                                              |
  |                  For consultation, apply at                  |
  |                                                              |
  |                      WILLIAM DIBBLEE'S,                      |
  |                                                              |
  |             Ladies' Hair Dresser and Wig Maker.              |
  |                                                              |
  |                  854 BROADWAY, N. Y. City.                   |
  |                                                              |
  +--------------------------------------------------------------+
  |                                                              |
  |                           FOLEY'S                            |
  |                                                              |
  |                          GOLD PENS.                          |
  |                                                              |
  |                    THE BEST AND CHEAPEST.                    |
  |                                                              |
  |                        256 BROADWAY.                         |
  |                                                              |
  +--------------------------------------------------------------+
  |                                                              |
  |                    $2 to ALBANY and TROY.                    |
  |                                                              |
  |     The Day Line Steamboats C. Vibbard and Daniel Drew,      |
  |  commencing May 31, will leave Vestry st. Pier at 8:45, and  |
  |   Thirty-fourth at 9 a.m., landing at Yonkers, (Nyack, and   |
  |   Tarrytown by ferry-boat), Cozzens, West Point, Cornwall,   |
  |    Newburgh, Poughkeepsie, Rhinebeck, Bristol, Catskill,     |
  |  Hudson, and New-Baltimore. A special train of broad-gauge   |
  | cars In connection with the day boats will leave on arrival  |
  |   at Albany (commencing June 20) for Sharon Springs. Fare    |
  |   $4.25 from New York and for Cherry Valley. The Steamboat   |
  |     Seneca will transfer passengers from Albany to Troy.     |
  |                                                              |
  +--------------------------------------------------------------+
  |                                                              |
  |                                                              |
  |                      ESTABLISHED 1866.                       |
  |                                                              |
  |     JAS R. NICHOLS, M. D., WM. J. ROLFE, A. M., Editors      |
  |                                                              |
  |                                                              |
  |                 Boston Journal of Chemistry.                 |
  |                                                              |
  |                  Devoted to the Science of                   |
  |                                                              |
  |                          HOME LIFE,                          |
  |                                                              |
  |             The Arts, Agriculture, and Medicine.             |
  |                                                              |
  |                       $1.00 Per Year.                        |
  |                                                              |
  |      _Journal and Punchinello (without Premium) $4.00._      |
  |                                                              |
  |                   SEND FOR SPECIMEN-COPY.                    |
  |                                                              |
  |                Address--JOURNAL OF CHEMISTRY,                |
  |                                                              |
  |                 150 CONGRESS STREET, BOSTON.                 |
  |                                                              |
  +--------------------------------------------------------------+
  |                                                              |
  |                      HENRY L. STEPHENS,                      |
  |                                                              |
  |                           ARTIST,                            |
  |                                                              |
  |                    No. 160 FULTON STREET,                    |
  |                                                              |
  |                          NEW YORK.                           |
  |                                                              |
  +--------------------------------------------------------------+
  |                                                              |
  |                       GEO. B. BOWLEND,                       |
  |                                                              |
  |                    Draughtsman & Designer                    |
  |                                                              |
  |                    No. 160 Fulton Street,                    |
  |                                                              |
  |                    Room No. 11, NEW YORK.                    |
  |                                                              |
  +--------------------------------------------------------------+


THE

MYSTERY OF MR. E. DROOD.

AN ADAPTATION.

BY ORPHEUS C. KERR.

CHAPTER XII--(Continued.)

The pauper burial-ground toward which they now progress in a rather
high-stepping manner, or--to vary the phrase--toward which their steps
are now very much bent, is not a favorite resort of the more cheerful
village people after nightfall. Ask any resident of Bumsteadville if he
believed in ghosts, and, if the time were mid-day and the place a
crowded grocery store, he would fearlessly answer in the negative; (just
the same as a Positive philosopher in cast-iron health and with no
thunder shower approaching would undauntedly deny a Deity!) but if any
resident of Bumsteadville should happen to be caught near the country
editor's last home after dark, he would get over that part of his road
in a curiously agile and flighty manner;--(just the same as a Positive
philosopher with a sore throat, or at an uncommonly showy bit of
lightning, would repeat "Now I lay me down to sleep," with surprising
devotion.) So, although no one in all Bumsteadville was in the least
afraid of the pauper burial-ground at any hour, it was not invariably
selected by the great mass of the populace as a peerless place to go
home by at midnight; and the two intellectual explorers find no
sentimental young couples rambling arm in arm among the ghastly
head-boards, nor so much as one loiterer smoking his segar on a
suicide's tomb.

"JOHN McLAUGHLIN, you're getting nervous again," says Mr. BUMSTEAD,
catching him in the coat collar with the handle of his umbrella and
drawing the other toward him hand-over-hand. "It's about time that you
should revert again to the hoary JAMES AKER'S excellent preparation for
the human family.--I'll try it first, myself, to see if it tastes at all
of the cork.

"Ah-h," sighs OLD MORTARITY, after his turn has come and been enjoyed at
last, "that's the kind of Spirits I don't mind being a wrapper to. I
could wrap _them_ up all right."

Reflectively chewing a clove, the Ritualistic organist reclines on the
pauper grave of a former writer for the daily press, and cogitates upon
his companion's leaning to Spiritualism; while the other produces
matches and lights their lanterns.

"Mr. McLAUGHLIN," he solemnly remarks, waving his umbrella at the graves
around, "in this scene you behold the very last of man's individual
being. In this entombment he ends forever. Tremble, J. McLAUGHLIN!
--forever. Soul and Spirit are but unmeaning words, according
to the latest big things in science. The departed Dr. DAVIS SLAVONSKI,
of St. Petersburg, before setting out for the Asylum, proved, by his
Atomic Theory, that men are neatly manufactured of Atoms of matter,
which are continually combining together until they form Man; and then
going through the process of Life, which is but the mechanical effect of
their combination; and then wearing apart again by attrition into the
exhaustion of cohesion called Death; and then crumbling into separate
Atoms of native matter, or dust, again; and then gradually combining
again, as before, and evolving another Man; and Living, and Dying,
again; and so on forever. Thus, and thus only, is Man immortal. You are
made exclusively of Atoms of matter, yourself, JOHN McLAUGHLIN. So am I."

"I can understand a man's believing that _he, himself,_ is all Atoms of
matter, and nothing else," responds OLD MORTARITY, skeptically.

"As how, JOHN McLAUGHLIN,--as how?"

"When he knows that, at any rate, he hasn't got one atom of common
sense," is the answer.

Suddenly Mr. BUMSTEAD arises from the grave and frantically shakes hands
with him.

"You're right, sir!" he says, emotionally. "You're a gooroleman, sir.
The Atom of common sense was one of the Atoms that SLAVONSKI forgot all
about. Let's do some skeletons now."

At the further end of the pauper burial-ground, and in the rear of the
former Alms-House, once stood a building used successively as a
cider-mill, a barn, and a kind of chapel for paupers. Long ago, from
neglect and bad weather, the frail wooden superstructure had fallen into
pieces and been gradually carted off; but a sturdy stone foundation
remained underground; and, although the flooring over it had for many
years been covered with debris and rank growth, so as to be
undistinguishable to common eyes from the general earth around it, the
great cellar still extended beneath, and, according to weird rumor, had
some secret access for OLD MORTARITY, who used it as a charnel
store-house for such spoils of the grave as he found in his prowlings.

To the spot thus historied the two moralists of the moonlight come now,
and, with many tumbles, Mr. McLAUGHLIN removes certain artfully placed
stones and rubbish, and lifts a clumsy extemporized trap-door. Below
appears a ricketty old step-ladder leading into darkness.

"I heard such cries and groans down there, last Christmas Eve, as
sounded worse than the Latin singing in the Ritualistic church,"
observes McLAUGHLIN.

"Cries and groans!" echoes Mr. BUMSTEAD, turning quite pale, and
momentarily forgetting the snakes which he is just beginning to discover
among the stones. "You're getting nervous again, poor wreck, and need
some more West Indian cough-mixture.--Wait until I see for myself
whether it's got enough sugar in it."

In due time the great nervous antidote is passed and replaced, and then,
with the lighted lanterns worked around under their arms, they go down
the tottering ladder. Down they go into a great, damp, musty cavern, to
which their lights give a pallid illumination.

"See here," says OLD MORTARITY, raising a long, curved bone from the
floor. "Look at that: shoulder-blade of unmarried Episcopal lady, aged
thirty-nine."

"How do you know she was so old, and unmarried?" asks the organist.

"Because the shoulder-blade's so sharp."

Mr. Bumstead is surprised at this specimen of the art of an AGASSIZ and
WATERHOUSE HAWKINS in such a mortary old man, and his intellectual pride
causes him to resolve at once upon a rival display.

"Look at this skull, JOHN McLAUGHLIN," he says, referring to an object
that he has found behind the ladder. "See thish fine, retreating brow,
bulging chin, projecting occipital bone, and these orifices of ears that
musht've been stupen'sly long. It's the skull, JOHN McLAUGHLIN, of a
twin-brother of the man who really wished--really wished, JOHN
McLAUGHLIN--that he could be sat'shfied, sir, in his own mind, that
CHARLES DICKENS was a Christian writer."

"Why, thash's skull of a hog," explains Mr. McLAUGHLIN, with some
contempt.

"Twin-brother--all th'shame," says Mr. BUMSTEAD, as though that made no
earthly difference.

Once more, what a strange expedition is this! How strangely the eyes of
the two men look, after two or three more applications to the antique
flask; and how curiously Mr. Bumstead walks on tip-toe at times and
takes short leaps now and then.

"Lesh go now," says BUMSTEAD, after both have been asleep upon their feet
several times; "I think th's snakes down here, JOHN McBUMSTEAD."

"Wh'st! monkies, you mean,--dozens of black monkies, Mr. BUMPLIN,"
whispers OLD MORTARITY, clutching his arm as he sinks against him.

"Noshir! Serp'nts!" insists Mr. BUMSTEAD, making futile attempts to open
his umbrella with one hand. "Warzesmarrer with th' light?--ansh'r me t'
once, Mac JOHNBUNKLIN!"

In their swayings under the confusions and delusions of the vault, their
lanterns have worked around to the neighborhoods of their spines, so
that, whichever way they turn, the light is all behind them. Greatly
agitated, as men are apt to be when surrounded by supernatural
influences, they do not perceive the cause of this apparently unnatural
illumination; and, upon turning round and round in irregular circles,
and still finding the light in the wrong place, they exhibit signs of
great trepidation.

"Warzemarrer wirra _light?_" repeats Mr. BUMSTEAD, spinning wildly until
he brings up against the wall.

"Ishgotb'witched, I b'lieve," pants Mr. McLAUGHLIN, whirling as
frenziedly with his own lantern dangling behind him, and coming to an
abrupt pause against the opposite wall.

Thus, each supported against the stones by a shoulder, they breathe hard
for a moment, and then sink into a slumber in which they both slide down
to the ground. Aroused by the shock, they sit up quite dazed, brush away
the swarming snakes and monkies, are freshly alarmed by discovering that
they are now actually sitting upon that perverse light behind them, and,
by a simultaneous impulse, begin crawling about in search of the ladder.
 Unable to see anything with all the light behind him, but fancying
that he discerns a gleam beyond a dark object near at hand, Mr. BUMSTEAD
rises to a standing attitude by a series of complex manoeuvres, and
plants a foot on something.

"I'morth'larrer!" he cries, spiritedly.

"Th'larrer's on me!" answers Mr. MCLAUGHLIN, in evidently great
bewilderment.

Then ensue a momentary wild struggle and muffled crash; for each
gentleman, coming blindly upon the other, has taken the light glimmering
at the other's back for the light at the top of the ladder, and, further
mistaking the other in the dark for the ladder itself, has attempted to
climb him. Mr. BUMSTEAD, however, has got the first step; whereupon, Mr.
MCLAUGHLIN, in resenting what he takes for the ladder's inexcusable
familiarity, has twisted both himself and his equally deluded companion
into a pretty hard fall.

Another interval of hard breathing, and then the organist of Saint Cow's
asks: "Di'you hear anything drop?"

"Yshir, th'larrer got throwed, f'rimpudence to a gen'l'm'n," is the
peevish return of OLD MORTARITY, who immediately falls asleep as he
lies, with his lantern under his spine.

In his sleep, he dreams that BUMSTEAD examines him closely, with a view
to gaining some clue to the mystery of the light behind both their
backs; and, on finding the lantern under him, and, studying it
profoundly for some time, is suddenly moved to feel along his own back.
He dreams that BUMSTEAD thereupon finds his own lantern, and exclaims,
after half an hour's analytical reflection, "It musht'ave slid round
while JOHN MCLAUGHLIN was intosh'cated." Then, or soon after, the
dreamer awakes, and can discern two Mr. BUMSTEADS seated upon the
step-ladders, with a lantern, baby-like, on each knee.

"You two men are awake at last, eh?" say the organists, with peculiar
smiles.

"Yes, gentlemen," return the MCLAUGHLINS, with yawns.

They ascend silently from the cellar, each believing that he is
accompanied by two companions, and rendered moodily distrustful thereby.

    "Aina maina mona--Mike.
    Bassalone, bona--Strike!"

sings a small, familiar voice, when they stand again above ground, and a
stone whizzes between their heads.

In another moment BUMSTEAD has the fell SMALLEY by the collar, and is
shaking him like a yard of carpet.

"You wretched little tarrier!" he cries in a fury, "you've been spying
around to-night, to find out something about my Spiritualism that may be
distorted to injure my Ritualistic standing."

"I ain't done nothing; and you jest drop me, or I'll knock spots out of
yer!" carols the stony young child. "I jest come to have my aim at that
old Beat there."

"Attend to his case, then--his and his friend's, for he seems to have
some one with him--and never let me see you two boys again."

Thus Mr. BUMSTEAD, as he releases the excited lad, and turns from the
pauper burial-ground for a curious kind of pitching and running walk
homeward. The strange expedition is at an end:-but _which_ end he is
unable just then to decide.

(_To be Continued._)

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: CLERKS ALL AWAY ON A SATURDAY FROLIC, WHICH ACCOUNTS FOR
THE UNFORTUNATE POSITION OF THIS STOUT GENTLEMAN, WHO WAS LEFT ALONE TO
LOCK UP HIS STORE.]


       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: PUNCHINELLO CORRESPONDENCE.]

ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.

_Johnny_.--Yes, you may offer your arm to your pretty cousin in the
country whenever you think she would like it, except when Mr.
PUNCHINELLO is present. If that gallant gentleman is at hand, escort
duty may, with perfect propriety, be left to him.

_Charles_ inquires whether his handwriting is good enough to qualify him
for membership in a base ball club. We think he is all right on that
score.

_Glaucus._--We have never heard that Newport is a good place for
gathering sea-shells, but we presume you can shell out there if you
wish.

_Chapeau_.--Hats will be worn on the head this season. It is not
considered stylish to hang them on the ear, eyebrow, or coat collar.

_Cit._--The correct dimensions of a Saratoga pocket-book have not been
definitely decided. As to sending it, it is doubtful whether the
rail-road companies would receive it as baggage. Perhaps you could
charter a canal boat.

_Aspirant_.--We cannot tell you the price of "bored" in Washington "for
a few weeks." No doubt you could get liberally bored at a reasonable
rate.

_Sorosis_--It was very wrong for your husband to mention the muddy
coffee. However, we advise you to attempt a settlement of such troubles
without creating a public scandal.

_Butcher Boy_.--You cannot succeed as a writer of "lite comidy" if you
continue to weave such tragic spells. "The Lean Larder" would not be an
attractive title for your play.

_C. Drincarty_ submits the following problem: If one swallow don't make
a summer, how many claret punches can a man take before fall? Will some
of our ingenious readers offer a suitable solution?

_Culturist_.--The potato has been grafted with great success on the
cucumber tree in some of the Western States. The stock should be heated
by a slow fire until the sap starts. The grafts should be boiled in a
preparation known to science as vanilla cream.

_Truth_.--Your information is not authentic. LOUIS NAPOLEON never played
marbles in Central Park, nor took his little Nap in the vestibule of
WOOD'S Museum.

_Fanny_ inquires whether "ballot girls" are wanted in New York. Wyoming
is a better field for them than this city.

_Maine Chance_ has been paying his _devoirs_ with great impartiality to
two young ladies. One of them has red hair and a Roman nose, but the
paternal income is very handsome. The other is witty and pretty, but can
bring no rocks, except possibly "Rock the cradle." Recently he called on
the golden girl, and a menial rudely repulsed him from the door. This
hurt his feelings. He then went to the dwelling of the Fair, when a big
dog attacked him "on purpose," and lacerated his trousers. He wants to
know whether he has any remedy in the courts. His best way is the way
home.

_Rifleman_.--You are right; the rival guns--the Dreyse and the
Chassepot--are also rifle-guns. Both of them are provided with needles,
as you suppose, but, so far as there is any chance of their being put to
the test under present circumstances, in Europe, it rather appears that
both of them will prove Needless.

_Piscator_.--No; the weak-fish is not so called on account of any
supposed feebleness attributable to it. If you take a round of the
markets one of these roaring hot days, your senses will tell you that
the weakfish is sometimes very strong.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PLAYS AND SHOWS.

As a good many persons know, LA GISELLE is a ballet whose hundred legs
are nightly displayed on the stage of the GRAND OPERA HOUSE.

The _Twelve Temptations_ have ceased to tempt, and the familiar legs of
LUPE no longer allure. But in their place we have KATHI LANNER, and
BERTHA LIND, and nearly a gross of assorted legs of the very best
quality.

Why do the women clamor for the ballot, when they have almost exclusive
possession of the ballet? The latter is much nicer and more useful than
the former. The average repeater can obtain only a dollar for his
ballot, but the average ballet will find any quantity of enthusiastic
admirers at one dollar and a half a head. Would any man pay KATHI LANNER
a dollar for the privilege of seeing her with a ballot in her hand?

On the other hand, lives there a man with eyes so dead that he would not
cheerfully pay twice that sum to see her in the mazes of the ballet?

But _La Giselle_? Certainly. I am coming to that in a moment. I have
often thought that nature must have intended me for a writer of sermons.
I have such a facility for beginning an article with a series of general
remarks that have nothing whatever to do with the subject.

Though how can any one be rationally expected to stick to anything in
this weather, except, perhaps, the newly varnished surface of his desk?
And how can even the firmest of resolutions be prevented from melting
and vanishing away, with the thermometer at more degrees than one likes
to mention? You remember the old proverb: "Man proposes, but his
mother-in-law finally disposes." The bearing of this observation lies in
its application.

By the bye, I don't know a better application, in the present weather,
than claret punch. Apply yourself continually to that cooling beverage,
and apply it continually to your lips, and the result is a sort of
reciprocity treat, whose results are much more certain than those of the
reciprocity treaty, of which Congress has latterly had so much to say.

To contemplate _La Giselle_ in all its bearings is a pleasure which is
peculiarly appropriate to the season. KATHI LANNER and her companions
may not be really cool, but they look as though they were. They remind
one of the East Indian country houses that are built on posts, so as to
allow a free circulation of air beneath the foundation. Anyhow, they
look as if they took things coolly.

(A joke might be made on the words coolly and Coolie. The reader may mix
to his own taste. It's too hot for any one to make jokes for other
people.)

But _La Giselle_? Yes! yes! I am just ready to speak of it. _La Giselle_
is a grand ballet in which an elaborate plot is developed by the toes of
some fifty young ladies. There is a young woman in it who loves a man,
and there is another woman who also loves him, and another man who loves
the first woman, and meddles and mars as though he were a professional
philanthropist.

The woman--the first woman, I mean--goes crazy down to the extremity of
her feet, and dies, and then there are more women,--no; these last are
disembodied spirits, with nothing but light skirts on,--who dance in
graveyards, and make young men dance with them till they fall down
exhausted, calling in vain for BROWN to take them home in carriages, and
pay for their torn gloves. The first young woman, and a young man--not
the other young man, you understand--does a good deal of--Well, in
fact, things are rather mixed before the ballet comes to an end, but I
know that it's a good thing, for FISK sits in his private box and
applauds it, which he wouldn't do if he didn't.

And now, having placed _La Giselle_ plainly before your mental vision, I
desire to rise to a personal explanation. For the ensuing four weeks,
the places, in PUNCHINELLO, which have heretofore known me, will
know me no more. I am going to a quiet country place on Long Island to
write war correspondence for the--well, I won't mention the name of the
paper. You see the editor of the _Na----_ of the paper in question, I
should say,--wants to have an independent and unprejudiced account of
the great struggle on the Rhine--something that shall be different from
any other account.--Down on Long Island, I shall be out of the reach of
either French or Prussian influence, and will be able to describe events
as they should be. I have made arrangements with the "Veteran Observer"
of the _Times_ to take charge of this column during my absence. If he
can only curb his natural tendency toward frivolity and jocoseness, I am
in hopes that he will be able to draw his salary as promptly and
efficiently as though he were a younger man. Remarking, therefore, in
the words of _Kathleen Mavourneen_, that my absence "may be four weeks,
and it may be longer," I bid my readers a warm (thermometer one hundred
and five degrees) farewell.

MATADOR.


       *       *       *       *       *


JUPITER BELLICOSUS.

Truly, PUNCHINELLO, this is an age of progress. Wars of succession
are no more. Absolutism must forever hang its head. Fling a glance at
France; peer into Prussia, _Vox populi_ is the voice of the King, and
the voice of the king is therefore _vox Dei_. When a king speaks for his
people he must speak sooth; what he says of other peoples must be taken
with a grain of salt. Bearing this in mind, the apparent inconsistency
between the regal rigmarole and the Imperial improvisation (these
epithets are a tribute to the Republic) which I have received by our
_special wire_ from Europe were addressed by the monarchs to their
respective armies before the grand "wiring in" which is to follow.

WILHELM KOENIG VON PRUSSEN.

_Soldaten_: The Gaul is at our gates. _Vaterland_ is in danger: my
_weiss_ is then for war. France, led by a despot, is about to desecrate
the Rhine. His imperial bees are swarming, but we shall send him back
with his bees in his bonnet, and a bee's mark (BISMARCK) on the end of
his nasal organ. France wars for conquest; Prussia never. When FREDERICK
the Great captured Silesia from a Roman without any apparent pretext,
was he not an instrument of Providence? When, in company with Austria,
we beat and bullied Denmark out of Schleswig-Holstein, were we not
victorious, and is not that sufficient justification? When we afterwards
beat this Austria, did it not serve her right? And when we absorbed
Hanover, &c., was it not to protect them? Yes, our present object is the
defence of our country and the capture of Alsace and Lorraine, which
mere politeness prevented us from claiming hitherto. On, then, soldiers
of Deutchland. Let our _law reign_ in Lorraine, for what is sauce for
the Prussian goose should be Alsace for the Gallic gander. The God of
battles is on the side of our just cause; Leipsic is looking at us,
Waterloo is watching us. GOTT _und_ WILHELM, _sauerkraut und schnapps.
Vorwarts._

NAPOLEON, EMPEREUR DES FRANCAIS.

_Soldats:_ True to your trust in me, I am about to lead you to
slaughter. _L'Empire c'est la paix_. Prussia would place a poor and
distant relative of mine on the throne of Spain, therefore must we
recover the natural frontier of France, which lies upon the Rhine. The
rhino is ready, and we are ready for the Rhine. Let my red republican
subjects recall Valmy and Jemappes, and their generals KELLERMANN and
DUMAURIOZ. Let every Frenchman kill a Prussian, every woman too _kill
her man_. They did much for _la patrie_ in those days, but do _more ye
to-day_. France wars for ideas only; Prussia for rapine. We have heard
this Rhine-whine long enough; it has got into our heads at last.

The spirit of my uncle has its eye upon you. Ambition was no part of his
nature. His struggles were all for the good of France, "which he loved
so much," as he himself said at his country-seat at St. Helena. Marshal,
then, to the notes of the _Marseillaise_, which I now generously permit
you to sing.

The Gallic rooster shall "cackle, cackle, clap his wings and crow,"
_Unter der Linden_. Jena judges us, Auerstedt is _our status_. The Man
of Destiny and December calls you. The God of armies (who marches with
the strongest battalions) is with us.

_La gloire et des Grenouilles_, France and fried potatoes. _L'Empire et
moi et le prince Imperial. En avant marche!_


       *       *       *       *       *


A District that ought to be subject to Earthquakes.

Rockland County.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: THE CELESTIAL SCARECROW IN MASSACHUSETTS.

IT CONSISTS OF A CHINESE GONG AND A LOT OF PUPPETS WORKED BY THE HANDS OF
CAPITAL; AND SOME PERSONS THINK IT A GOOD JOKE.]

       *       *       *       *       *

THE VULTURE'S CALL.

          Come--sisters--come!
      The din of arms is rising from the vale,
        Bright arms are glittering in the morning sun
      And trumpet tones are ringing in the gale!
          Hurrah-hurrah!
          As fast and far
      We hurry to behold the blithesome game of War!

          Haste--sisters--haste!
      The drums are booming, shrill fifes whistling clear,
        The scent of human blood is in the blast,
      And the load cannon stuns the startled ear.
          Away--away!
          To view the fray,
      For us a feast is spread when Man goes forth to slay.

          Rest--sisters--rest!
      Here on these blasted pines; and mark beneath
        How war's red whirlwind shakes earth's crazy breast
      And cumbers it with agony and death.
          Toil, soldiers, toil,
          Through war's turmoil,
      We Vultures gain the prize--we Vultures share the spoil.


       *       *       *       *       *


Not Generally Known.

The new three cent stamp smacks of the Revolution; containing, as it
does, the portraits of two military heroes of that period. General
WASHINGTON will be recognized at once, while in the background can be
discerned that brilliant officer--General GREEN.

       *       *       *       *       *

Our Future Millionaires.

Once let the Celestials get our American way of doing business, and
there will be plenty of China ASTORS among us.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE POEMS OF THE CRADLE.

CANTO II.

      "Hey! Diddle diddle, the cat and the fiddle
        The cow jumped over the moon.
      The little dog laughed to see the sport,
        And the dish ran after the spoon."

These were the classic expressions of the hilarious poet of a period far
back in the vista of ages. How vividly they portray the exalted state of
his mind; and how impressed the public must have been at the time; for
did not the words become popular immediately, and have they not so
continued to the present day?

Every mother immediately seized upon the verse, and, setting it to music
of her own, sang it as a cradle song to soothe the troubles of
infanthood, and repeated it in great glee to the intelligent babe when
in a crowing mood, as the poem most fitted for the infant's brain to
comprehend.

Papa, anxious to watch the unfolding of the human mind, and its gradual
development, would take the baby-prodigy in his arms, and with keen
glance directed upon its face, repeat, in thrilling tones, the sublime
words. With what joy would he remark and comment upon any gleam of
intelligence, and again and again would he recite, in an impressive
voice, those words so calculated to aid in bringing into blossom the bud
of promise.

But who can meditate upon the memorable stanzas, and not see, in fancy,
the enthusiastic youth--the lover of melody and of nature--as he enters
his dingy room, the ordinary abiding place of poetical geniuses. He
sees his beloved fiddle, and his no less beloved feline friend, in
loving conjunction; he bursts out rapturously with impetuous joy:

      "Hey! diddle diddle, the cat and the fiddle!"

He sees the two things dearest to his heart, and sees them both at one
time! And he must be excused for his sudden night into the regions of
classicism.

No wonder that he immediately imagines the world to be as full of joy as
he himself, and that he thinks

       "The cow jumped over the moon."

Perhaps the sight was a sufficient re-moon-eration to him for his past
troubles; and the exhilaration of his spirits caused him to dance, to
cut pigeon-wings, and otherwise gaily disport himself; consequently,

       "The little dog laughed to see the sport,"

which every intelligent dog would have done, under the circumstances.
Certainly, dear reader, you would have done so yourself.

The hilariousness of the poet increasing, and his joyfulness expanding,
his manifestations did not confine themselves to simple dancing-steps
and an occasional pigeon-wing, but, inadvertently perhaps, he introduced
the "can-can," and that explains why

       "The dish ran away with the spoon."

For the end of his excited toe came in contact with his only dish and
spoon, and propelled them to the other side of the room. As he does not
tell us whether the dish remained whole after its escapade, we must
conclude that it was broken, and that the dreadful accident caused,
immediately, a damp to descend upon his effervescent spirits.

In what better way could he give vent to his feelings than in
descriptive verse? He could not shed his tears upon the paper and hand
them around for inspection, or write a melancholy sonnet on the frailty
of crockery, as a relief to his mind. No! he chose the course best
fitted to command public attention, as the result proved. He told his
tale--its cause and effect--in as few words as possible. Fortunate if
other poets would only do the same!

       *       *       *       *       *

An Ornithological Con.

What bird does General PRIM most resemble?
A Kingfisher.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: NOTES ON THE FERRY.

MR. CARAMEL, WHO IS OBSERVANT, CONTEMPLATIVE, AND GIVEN TO COMPARISON,
ARRIVES AT THE CONCLUSION THAT SOME WOMEN ARE NICER THAN OTHERS.]

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MISERIES OF A HANDSOME MAN.

Ever since my earliest recollections I have been a victim to
circumstances.

Beauty, which others desire and try every means to obtain, to me has
been a source of untold misery. From my infancy, when ugly women with
horrid breaths would stop my nurse in the streets and insist upon
kissing me--through my school-days, when the girls would pet me and
offer me a share of their nuts and candies, and the boys laugh at me in
consequence, and call me "gal-boy," squirt ink upon my face for
beauty-spots, and present me with curl-papers and flowers for my
hair--until the present, when I am denied introductions to young ladies
and am put off on old women--I have suffered for my looks.

In my boarding-house I am shunned as if I had the plague. When I enter
the parlor or dining-room, I see the ladies look at each other with a
knowing air, as much as to say, "Look at him!" And the answer is
telegraphed back, "Ain't he handsome? but he knows it," as if I could
help knowing it with every one telling me so fifty times a day; and
husbands pay unusual attention to their wives when I am around, as if I
were an ogre.

I am naturally a modest man, made more so by my extreme sensitiveness to
personal criticism; and to be obliged to stand apparently unconscious,
when I know I am being looked at and commented upon, is harrowing to my
feelings. I feel sometimes as if I should drop down on the floor, but
then folks would never stop laughing if I did, at what they would be
pleased to term my extreme ladylikeness! I have actually prayed that I
might get the small-pox, and once walked through the small-pox hospital
for that purpose, but escaped unharmed.

I suppose I must have been vaccinated. In fact, I know I have been, for
how often have I looked at the scar on my arm, and wished it had been on
my cheek, or at the end of my nose, or, in fact, on any place where it
might be considered a blemish.

When I was a child I came near killing myself one night by going to bed
with two large bottle-corks thrust into my nostrils, to make them large,
like other boys'; and have made my mouth sore by stretching it with my
fingers, or forcing melon-rinds into it, to enlarge it. But it was
useless; perhaps the mouth might be sore for a couple of days, but its
shape remained unaltered.

Now that I am a man, I am as unfortunate as ever. My hair _will_ curl,
even when shaved within half-an-inch of the scalp; my moustache will
stay jet-black, although I sometimes wax the ends of it with soap, and
walk on the sunny side of Broadway; my teeth are perfect, and I never
need a dentist; and my hands are shameful for a man,--so all my
old-maid-aunts and bachelor-uncles say.

My affections have been trifled with several times, "because," as they
said, "when they had drawn me to the proposing point, I was too handsome
to be good for anything as a husband--I did very well for a beau."
Goodness! is it only ugly men that can marry? I want to marry and settle
down; for I am so slighted in society that I look with envy upon homely
or mis-shapen men.

But who will have me? I put it to you, my friend, if it isn't a hard
case. I want an intelligent and agreeable wife, and one that comes of a
respectable family. I don't think I am asking too much, but it seems
fate has determined such a one I can never have! I have either to remain
single, or take one that is "ignorant and vulgar." That, of course,
would be as much remarked upon as my appearance, so it cannot be thought
of.

I want to escape observation and criticism. I think strongly of
emigrating to the Rocky Mountains, donning a rough garb, and digging for
gold, in the hope of getting round-shouldered; or hiring myself out as a
wood-chopper, in anticipation of a chip flying up and taking off part of
my obnoxious nose.

If there were no women around, I might escape notice out there. But if
one happened to come along, I should be obliged to leave, for her eyes
would ferret out my unfortunate peculiarities, and all my wounds would
be opened afresh. Sometimes I think there is no spot on the globe where
I would be welcomed; and I feel inclined to commit some desperate deed,
that I may be arrested and confined out of the sight of man and
woman-kind, until I am aged and bent enough to be presentable.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR PORTFOLIO.

Passing down Chatham street the other day, PUNCHINELLO stopped in front
of a window where hung a highly-colored engraving of an Austrian
sovereign engaged in the Easter ceremony of washing the feet of twelve
old men and women.

An Irishman at our side, who had been puzzling some time to comprehend
the problem thus submitted to him, finally broke out:

"An' may I ax ye, misther, to be koind enough to exshplain phat in the
wurruld that owld roosther's doin'?" pointing to the figure of the
kneeling monarch.

"He is washing the feet of the ladies and gentlemen," mildly put in
PUNCHINELLO.

"Bedad," says PAT, "don't I see that for meself; but phatis he doin' it
for?"

"It is a ceremony of the Catholic Church," PUNCHINELLO explained,
"typical of the washing of the feet of the Twelve Apostles."

PAT eyed PUNCHINELLO askance with an expression which plainly enough
said that he did not believe we had been reared to tell the truth
strictly upon all occasions, and then added:

"Bad cess to your manners, then, don't I know betther nor that; for
haven't I been in the church these forty years, and sorrow a sowl ever
washed _me_ feet!"

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: THE SITUATION IN EUROPE.

  INTO "BIZ" LOUIS NAP HE IS GOING,
  TO PAY OFF THE DEBTS THAT HE'S OWING;
  DETERMINED THAT HE WILL MAKE _his_ MARK,
  BY TAKING THE CHANGE OUT OF BISMARCK.]

       *       *       *       *       *

FROM AN ANXIOUS MOTHER TO HER DAUGHTER.

[Who is at a Watering Place.]

NEW YORK, July 12, 1870.

MY DEAR DAUGHTER: How are you getting on, dear? Well, I hope, for you
know I _do_ want to get you off, desperately. Thirty-seven, and still on
my hands! Mr. GUSHER, of the Four-hundred-and-thirty-ninth Avenue, goes
down next Saturday. He will hunt you up. Mr. GUSHER is a nice man--so
sympathetic and kind; and has such a lovely moustache. Besides, my dear
SOPHY, he has oceans of stamps. Quite true, my child, he hasn't much of
anything else, but girls at thirty-seven must not have too sharp eyes,
nor see too much. Do, dear, try and fix him if you can. Put all your
little artifices into effect. Walk, if possible, by moonlight, and
alone; that is, with him. Talk, as you know you can, of the sweets of
love and the delights of home. Dwell on the felicities of love in a
cottage, and if he doesn't see it, dilate on the article in a
brown-stone front, with marble steps. Picture to him in the most glowing
terms the joys of the fireside, with fond you by his side. If he hints
that a fireside in July is slightly tepid, thoughtfully suggest that it
is merely a figure of speech, and introduce an episode of cream to cool
it. Quote vehemently from TENNYSON, and LONGFELLOW, and Mrs. BROWNING.
Bring the artillery of your eyes to bear squarely on the mark. Remember
that thirty-seven years and an anxious mother are steadily looking down
upon you.

Cut SMIRCH. SMIRCH is a worthless fellow. Would you believe it? his
father makes boot-pegs for a living. The house of WIGGINS cannot consort
with the son of one who pegs along in life in this manner! Never. Banish
SMIRCH. Don't let SMIRCH even look at your footprints on the beach.

Then there is Mr. BLUSTER. What is he? Who? Impertinent puppy! Pretended
to own a corner-house on the Twenty-fifth Avenue, and wanted to know how
_I_ should like it? Like it? I should like to see him in Sing-Sing! _He_
own a house?--a brass foundry more like, and that in his face! Keep a
sharp eye on BLUSTER and his blarney. He's what our neighbor GINGER
calls a "beat," whatever that is--a squash, no doubt.

Don't spare any pains, my dear, for a market. I was only twenty-six when
I married the late lamented Mr. WIGGINS. And a dear good man he
was--only I wish he had paid his bills at the corner groceries. How he
_did_ love, my dear--that favorite demijohn in the corner! And then when
he came home at night with such a smile--he'd been taking them all day.
Don't fail to catch somebody. GUSHER, depend, is the man. Money is
everything. Never mind what he hasn't got just under the hat. It is the
pocket you must aim at. What is life and society--what New York--without
money? Say you love him to distraction. Declare your existence is bound
up in his. (Greenback binding.) Throw yourself at his feet at the
opportune moment, and victory must be yours. Impale him at all hazards.
Remember you are thirty-seven and well on in life. Your own loving

MARIA ANASTASIA WIGGINS.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PUMP.

An Old Story with a Modern Application.

      Like rifts of sunshine, her tresses
        Waved over her shoulders bare,
      And she flitted as light o'er the meadows,
        As an angel in the air.

      "O maid of the country, rest thee
        This village pump beside,
      And here thou shalt fill thy pitcher,
        Like REBECCA, the well beside!"

      But a voice from yonder window
        Through my shuddering senses ran,
      And these were its words: "MARIA-R!
        MA-RIA-R! don't-mind-that-man!"

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: LUCIFERS LITTLE GAME WITH HIS ROYAL PUPPETS.]

       *       *       *       *       *

HIRAM GREEN'S EXPERIENCE AS AN EDITOR.

Lively Times in the Editorial Sanctum.--The "Lait Gustise" handled
Roughly.

"Whooray! Whooray!" I exclaimed, rushin' into the kitchen door, one
mornin' last spring, and addressin' Mrs. GREEN. "I've been invited to
edit the _Skeensboro Fish Horn_. Fame, madam, awaits your talented
pardner."

"Talented Lunkhead, you mean," said this interestin' femail; "you'd look
sweet editin' a noose paper. So would H. WARD BEECHER dancin' 'shoo-fly'
along with DAN BRYANT. Don't make a fool of yourself if you know
anything, HIRAM, and respect your family."

The above conversation was the prelude to my first and last experience
in editin' a country paper.

The editor of the "Fish Horn" went on a pleasure trip, to plant a rich
ant who had died and left him some cash.

Durin' his absence I run his paper for him. Seatin' my form on top of the
nail keg, with shears and paste brush I prepared to show this ere
community how to run a noosepaper.

I writ the follerin' little squibs and put 'em in my first issue.

"If a sertin lite complexion man wouldn't run his hands down into sugar
barrels so often, when visitin' grosery stores, it would be money in the
pocket of the Skeensboro merchants"--

"Query. Wonder how a farmer in this town, whose name we will not rite,
likes burnin' wood from his nabor's wood-pile?"--

"We would advise a sertin toothles old made to leave off paintin' her
cheeks, and stop slanderin' her nabors. If she does so, she will be a
more interestin' femail to have around."--

"Stop Thief.--If that Deekin, who trades at one of our grocery stores,
and helps himself to ten cents worth of tobacker while buyin' one cents
worth of pipes, will devide up his custom, it would be doing the square
thing by the man who has kept him in tobacker for several years."

These articles was like the bustin' of a lot of bombshells in this
usually quiet boro.

The Deekins called a church meetin', and played a game of old sledge, to
see who would call and demand satisfaction for the insult. As they all
smoked, they couldn't tell who was hit, as their tobacker bill was small
all around.

Deekin PERKINS got beat when they come to "saw off."

Said this pious man:

"If old GREEN don't chaw his words, I'll bust his gizzard."

The farmers met at SIMMINSES store. After tryin' on the garment about
steelin' wood, it was hard to decide who the coat fit the best, but each
one made up his mind to pay off an old grudge and "pitch into the Lait
Gustise."

All the old mades met together in the village milliner shop, where the
Sore-eye-siss society held meetin's once a week, and their false teeth
trembled like a rattlesnake's tail, when they read my artickle about old
mades.

It was finally resolved by this anshient lot of caliker to "stir up old
GREEN."

Headed by SARY YOUMANS, the crossest old made in the U.S., and all armed
with broom-sticks and darnin'-needles, the door of my editorial offis
was busted open, and the whole caboodle of wimmen, famishin' for my top
hair, entered.

They foamed at the mouth like a pack of dissappinted Orpheus--C--Kerrs,
as they brandished their wepins over my bald head.

"Squire GREEN," sed a maskaline lookin' specimen of time worn caliker,
holdin' a copy of the _Fish Horn_ in her bony fingers, "did you rite
that 'ere?"

"Wall," sed I, feelin' somewhat riled at the sassy crowd, "s'posen I did
or didn't, what on it?"

"We are goin' to visit the wrath of a down-trodden rase upon your
frontispiece, that's what we is, d'ye hear, old Pilgarlick?" said the
exasperated 16th Amendmenter, as she brought down her gingham umbrella
over my shoulders.

At this they all rushed for me. With paste-brush and shears I kept them
off, until somebody pushed me over a woman who had got tripped up, when
the army of infuriated Amazons piled onto my aged form.

This round dident last more'n two minutes, for as soon as they got me
down, they all stuck their confounded needles into me, and then left me
lookin' more like a porkupine than a human bein'.

I hadent more'n had time to pull out a few quarts of needles, before in
walks 2 big strappin' farmers.

"Old man, we've come for you," said one of 'em. "We'll larn you to
slander honest fokes."

At this he let fly his rite bute at my cote skirts.

I was home-sick, you can jest bet. Then t'other chap let me have it.

"Down stairs with him," sed they both, and down I went, pooty lively for
an old man.

Just as I got to the bottom I lit on a man's head. It was Deekin PERKINS
comein' to "bust my gizzard."

"Hevings and airth," sed the Deekin as he tumbled over in the entry way.
I jumped behind a door, emejutly, and as the farmers proceeded to polish
off the Deekin, I was willin' to forgive both of 'em, as the Deekin
groaned and yelled.

Yes siree! it was soothin' fun for me, to see them farmers welt the
Deekin.

Steelin' up stairs agin, I was brushin' off my clothes, when in walks
EBENEZER.

"Sawtel," said he, ceasin' me by the cote coller and shakin' me, "Ile
larn you to rite about steelin' sugar; take that--and that," at which he
let fly his bute, and down stairs I went agin--Eben urgin' me on with
his bute.--

Suffice to say, the whole village called on me that day, and I was
kicked down stairs 32 times by the watch.--Hosswhipt by 17
wimmen--besides bein' stuck full of needles by a lot more.

I got so used to bein' kicked down stairs, that evry time a man come in
the door, I would place my back towards him and sing out:

"Kick away, my friend, I'm in the Editorial biziness to-day--to-morrow I
go hents--there's rather too much exsitement runnin' a noosepaper, and I
shall resine this evenin."

When I got home that nite, I looked like an angel carryin' a palm-leaf
fan in his hand, and clothed in purple and fine linen. My body was
purpler than a huckleberry pie, and my linen was torn into pieces finer
than a postage-stamp.

"Sarved you rite, you old fool," said Mrs. GREEN, as she stood rubbin'
camfire onto me. "In ritin' noosepaper articles, editors orter name
their man. A shoe which hain't bilt for anybody in particular, will get
onto evrybody in general's foot. When it does, the bilder had better get
ready for numerous bootin's, from that self-same shoe."

Between you and I, PUNCHINELLO, MARIAH is about 1/2 rite. Too-rally
ewers.

HIRAM: GREEN, ESQ.,

_Lait Gustise of the Peece._


       *       *       *       *       *


COMIC ZOOLOGY

Order, Cetacea.--The Right (and wrong) Whale.

The largest of the Cetacea is the Right whale, of which--so persistently
is it hunted down--there will soon be but few Left. Some flippant jokist
has remarked that there is no Wrong whale, but this is all Oily Gammon.
There is a right and a wrong to everything--not excepting the leviathan
of the deep.

By the courtesy of the Fisheries, the planting of a harpoon in the
vitals of a Right whale gives the planter a pre-emption claim to it. If
subsequently appropriated by another party it becomes, so far as that
party is concerned, the Wrong whale, and on Trying the case its value
may be recovered in a court of law,--with Whaling costs.

The sperm whale, or cachalot, (genus _physeter_) is a rare visitor in
the higher latitudes. Now and then a solitary specimen is taken in the
Northern Atlantic, but the best place to catch a lot is on the Pacific
coast. It may be mentioned incidentally, as a curious meteorological
coincidence, that Whales and Waterspouts are invariably seen together,
and hence it was, (perhaps,) that the long-necked cloud pointed out by
HAMLET to POLONIUS, reminded that old Grampus of a Whale.

The favorite food of the great marine mammal of the Pacific is the
Squid, and as this little creature swarms in the vicinity of Hawaii, the
cachalot instinctively goes there at certain seasons to chew its Squid
by way of a Sandwich.

Although the capture of the whale involves an immense amount of Paying
Out before anything can be realized, it has probably always been a
lucrative pursuit. The great fish seems, however, to have yielded the
greatest Prophet in the days of JONAH. No man since then has enjoyed the
same facilities for forming a true estimate of the value of the monster,
that were vouchsafed to that singular man. Perhaps during his visit to
Nineveh he entertained the Ninnies with a learned lecture on the
subject, but if so, it has not turned up to reward the research of
modern Archaeologists. LAYARD found the word JONAH inscribed among the
ruins of the old Assyrian city, but the name of the ancient mariner was
unaccompanied by any mention of the whale.

All the whale family, though apparently phlegmatic, are somewhat given
to Blowing up, and, when about to die, instead of taking the matter
coolly and philosophically, they are always terribly Flurried. In fact,
the whale, when in _articulo mortis_, makes a more tremendous rumpus
about its latter end than any other animal either of the sea or land.

The Right whale, though many people make Light of it, is unquestionably
the heaviest of living creatures. Scales never contained anything so
ponderous. But while conceding to Leviathan the proud title of Monarch
of the Deep, it should be remarked that it has a rival on the land,
known as Old King Coal, that completely takes the Shine out of it.


       *       *       *       *       *


THE WATERING PLACES.

Punchinello's Vacations.

At Newport, one cannot fail to perceive a certain atmosphere of blue
blood--but it must not be understood, from this expression, that the air
is filled with cerulean gore. Mr. P. merely wished to remark that the
society at that watering place is very aristocratic. He felt the
influence himself, although he staid there only a few days. His
aristocratic impulses all came out. Whether they staid out or not
remains to be seen.

But no matter. He found many of the best people in Newport, and he felt
congenial. When a fellow sits at his wine with men like JOHN T. HOFFMAN,
and AUGUST BELMONT, and PARAN STEVENS; and takes the air with Mrs. J.F.,
Jr., behind her delightful four-in-hand, he is apt to feel a little
"uppish." If anyone doubts it let him try it. At the Atlantic Hotel they
gave Mr. P. the room which had been recently vacated by Gov. PADELFORD.
He was glad to hear this. He liked the room a great deal better when he
heard that the Governor wasn't there any more.

The first walk that he took on the beach proved to him that this was no
place for illiterate snobs and shoddyites. Everybody talked of high
moral aims, or questions of deep import, (especially the high tariff
Congressmen,) and even the little girls who were sitting in the shade,
(with big white umbrellas over them to keep the freckles off,) were
puzzling their heads over charades and enigmas, instead of running
around and making little Frou-Frous of themselves. Mr. P. composed an
enigma for a group of these young students. Said he:

    "My first is a useless expense.
    My second is a useless expense.
    My third is a useless expense.
    My fourth is a useless expense.
    My fifth is a useless expense.
    My sixth is a useless expense,
    and so is my eighth, ninth, tenth, and eleventh, and all the rest
    of my parts, of which there are three hundred and fifty.

    My whole is a useless expense, and sits at Washington."

The dear little girls were not long in guessing this ingenious enigma
and while they were rejoicing over their success, Mr. P. was suddenly
addressed by a man who had been standing behind him. Starting
little, he turned around and was thus addressed by his unknown
listener.

"Sir," said that individual, "do I understand you to mean that the
Congress of the United States is a useless expense?"

"Well, sir," said Mr. P., with a smile, "as it costs a great deal and
does very little, I cannot but think it is both useless and expensive."

"Then sir," said the other, "you must think the whole institution is a
nuisance generally."

"You put it very strongly," said Mr. P., "but I fear that you are about
right."

"Sir!" cried the gentleman, his face beaming with an indescribable
expression. "Give me your hand! I am glad to know you. I agree with you
exactly. My name is WHITTEMORE."

But Mr. P. did not waste all his time in talking to strangers and
concocting enigmas. He had come to Newport with a purpose. It was none
of the ordinary purposes of watering place visitors. These he could
carry out elsewhere.

His object in coming here was grand, unusual and romantic. _He came to
be rescued by IDA LEWIS!_

It was not easy to devise a plan for this noble design, and it was not
until the morning of the second day of his visit, that Mr. P. was ready
for the adventure. Then he hired a boat, and set sail, alone, o'er the
boundless bosom of the Atlantic.

He had not sailed more than a few hours on said boundless bosom, before
he turned his prow back towards land,--towards the far-famed Lime Rocks,
on which the intrepid heroine dwells. He had thought of being wrecked at
night, but fearing that IDA might not be able to find him in the dark,
he gave up this idea. His present intention was that Miss LEWIS should
believe him to be a lonely mariner from a far distance, tossed by the
angry waves upon her rock-bound coast But there was a certain difficulty
in the way, which Mr. P. feared would prove fatal to his hopes.

The sea was just as smooth as glass!

And the wind all died away!

There was not enough left to ruffle a squirrel's tail. How absurd the
situation! How could he ever be dashed helpless upon the rocks under
such circumstances?

The tide was setting in, and as he gradually drifted towards the land,
he saw the storied rocks, and even perceived Miss IDA, sitting upon a
shady prominence, crocheting a tidy.

What should he do to attract her attention? How put himself in imminent
peril? His anxiety for a time was dreadful, but he thought of a plan. He
got out his knife and whittled the mast half through.

"Now," thought he, "if my mast and rigging go by the board, she will
surely come and rescue me!"

But the mast and rigging were as obstinate as outside speculators in
Wall street,--they would not go by the board,--and Mr. P. was obliged at
last to break down the mast by main force. But the lady heard not the
awful crash, and little weened that a fellow-being was out alone on the
wild watery waste, in a shipwrecked bark! After waiting for some time,
that she might ween this terrible truth, Mr. P, concluded that there was
nothing to do but to spring a leak.

But he found this difficult. Kick as hard as he might, he could not
loosen a bottom board. And he had no auger! The Lime Rocks were getting
nearer and nearer. Would he drift safely ashore?

"Oh! how can I wreck myself, 'ere it be too late?" he cried, in the
agony of his heart. Wild with apprehensions of reaching the land without
danger, he sat down and madly whittled a hole in the bottom of the boat,
making it, as nearly as possible, such a one as a sword fish would be
likely to cut. When he got it done, the water bubbled through it like an
oil-well. In fact, Mr. P. was afraid that his vessel would fill up
before he was near enough for the maiden on the rocks to hear his
heart-rending cries for succor. He could see her plainly now. 'Twas
certainly she. He knew her by her photograph--("Twenty-five cents, sir.
The American female GRACE DARLING, sir. Likeness warranted, sir.")

But she turned not towards him. Confound it! Would she finish that
eternal tidy ere she glanced around?

The boat was almost full now. It would sink before she saw it! That hole
must be stopped until he had drifted near enough to give vent to an
agonizing cry for help.

Having nothing else convenient, Mr. P. clapped into the hole a lot of
manuscripts which he had brought with him for consideration.
(Correspondents who may experience apparent neglect will please take
notice. It is presumed, of course, that every one who writes anything
worth reading, will keep a copy of it.)

Now the rocks were comparatively near, and standing up to his knees in
water, Mr. P. gave the appropriate heart-rending cry for succor. But in
spite of the prevailing calm, he perceived that there was a surf upon
the rocks, and a noise of many waters. At the top of his voice Mr. P.
again shouted.

"Hello, IDA!"

But he soon found that he would have to hello longer as well as hello
IDA, and he did it.

At last she heard him.

Dropping her work-basket, she ran to the edge of the rock, and making a
trumpet of her hands, called out:

"Ahoy there! What's up?"

"Me!" answered Mr. P., "but I won't be up very long. Haste to my
assistance, oh maiden! ere I sink!"

Then she shouted again:

"I've got no boat! It's over to MCCURDY's, getting caulked!"

No boat!

Then indeed did Mr. P. turn pale, and his knees did tremble.

But IDA was not to be daunted. Bounding like a chamois o'er the rocks,
to her house, she quickly returned with a long coil of rope, and
instantly hurled it over the curling breakers with such a strong arm and
true aim, that one end of it struck Mr. P. in the face with a crack like
that of a giant's whip.

He grasped the rope, and that instant his boat sank like a rock!

IDA hauled away like a steam-engine, and Mr. P.'s prow (his nose, you
know,) cut through the water like a knife, in a straight line for the
shore. In front of him he saw a great mass of sharp roots. He shuddered,
but over them he went. On, on, he went, nor turned aside for jagged
cleft or sharp-edged stone. A ship, loaded with queensware, had been
wrecked near shore, and through a vast mass of broken plates, and cups,
and saucers, Mr. P. went,--straight and swift as an arrow.

At last, wet, bleeding, ragged, scratched, and feint, he reached the
shore. Said IDA, as she supported him towards her dwelling: "How did you
ever come to be wrecked on such a day as this?"

Mr. P. hesitated. But with such a noble creature, the truth would surely
be the best. He told her all.

"Oh!" said he. "Dear girl, 'twas I, myself, who hewed down my mast and
scuttled my fair bark. And I did it, maiden fair! that thy brave arm
might rescue me from the watery deep, (you know what a good thing it
would be for both of us when it got in the papers,) and that on thy
hardy bosom I might be borne--"

"Born jackass!" interrupted IDA. "I believe that everybody who comes to
Newport make fools of themselves about me; but you are certainly the
Champion Fool of the Lime Rocks."

Mr. P. couldn't deny it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Alphabetical.

From the insult passed upon Count BENDETTI, at Ems, it appears that the
Prussian government does not always mind its P's and Q's.

       *       *       *       *       *

A ROSE BY ANY OTHER NAME.

A Love Tale.

I.

"I won't do it--there!"

Miss ANGELINA VAVASOUR sat her little fat body down in a chair, slapped
her little fat hands upon her little fat knees, swelled her little fat
person until she looked like a big gooseberry just ready to burst, and
then turned her little fat red face up to Mr. JOHN SMITH, who was
standing before her.

"I regret," said Mr. J.S., "that you should refuse to be Mrs. JOHN
SMITH." (ANGELINA shuddered.) "Might I ask you why?"

"No," said she. "Say, my age."

"But I don't object to that," said J.S.

"Well, I won't," said ANGELINA, "that's all!"

J.S. rubbed the fur on his hat the wrong way, pulled up his shirt
collar, looked mournfully at the idol of his heart, and departed.

Why did she refuse him? Listen!

About a thousand or two years ago--well, perhaps we had better not go so
far back--anyhow, Miss VAVASOUR had ancestors, and she was proud of
them; she had a name, and she gloried in it; she had $100,000, and
therefore insisted on keeping her aristocratic name; she had kept it for
forty years, and was willing to take a contract for the rest of the job,
though she did feel that she needed a man to slide down the hill of time
with her, and she was rather fond of SMITH.

Mr. JOHN SMITH wanted to marry her for herself alone, though he had made
inquiries and knew all about that $100,000.

Thus it was.

II.

"That's all!" Miss VAVASOUR had said.

But was it all? She thought it was matrimony; J.S. thought it was matter
o' money, and J.S. had a long head--an awfully long head.

Mr. JOHN SMITH sat before the grate. His auburn locks, his Roman nose,
his little grey eyes, his thin lips, his big ears, and each particular
hair of his red whiskers, expressed intense disgust.

He was day-dreaming, seeing visions in the fire. There he saw Miss
ANGELINA VAVASOUR. Her eyes were ten dollar gold pieces, her nose a
little pile of ducats, each cheek seemed swelled out by large quantities
of dollars, every tooth in her head was a double-eagle, and her hair was
a mass of ingots. He heaved a sigh and took a fresh chew.

The tobacco seemed to refresh him; he walked the floor for a while, and
then sat in his chair. Suddenly his countenance was irradiated, like a
ripening squash at early morn, and he sprang to his feet, crying out,
"Eureka! I'll do it."

III.

Eureka! How? What? Thus.

One month afterwards our hero presented himself at the house of Miss
VAVASOUR, carrying under his arm a large volume, bound in calf.

"Miss VAVASOUR," said he, "I come to repeat my proposition to you. Will
you reconsider?"

"Sir?" said she.

"Things have changed," said our hero.

"Changed!" echoed she. "What do you mean, Mr. JOHN SMITH?"

"Call me not by that vile cognomen," quoth he. "Look!" and he opened the
Session Laws at page 1004.

She read:

"STATE OF NEW YORK, COUNTY OF BLANK.

I, JONATHAN JERUSALEM, Clerk of said County, do hereby certify that the
following change of name has been made by the County Court of this
County, viz.:

JOHN SMITH to AUGUSTUS VAVASOUR.

In testimony whereof, I have set my hand and the seal of the County,
June 3d, 1870. JONATHAN JERUSALEM, _Clerk_." [L.S.]

She fell into his arms, and rested her palpitating head upon his
palpitating bosom. He pulled up his shirt-collar, trod on the cat, and
gently whispered, "$100,000."

MORAL.

A word to the wise. Go and do like-wise. LOT.

       *       *       *       *       *

Gummy.

The following is from a Western paper:

"At Council Buffs, Iowa, a woman who don't chew gum is out of style, and
gets the cold shoulder."

Our comment upon the above is that there must be very little gumshun
among the women of Council Bluffs.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: "SUCH IS LIFE."

Here you see Tom, Dick, and Harry, as they looked when starting
in the morning for a day's fishing.

And this is the same party, dejected, bedraggled, and foot-sore
wearily making their way homeward after their day's "sport."]

       *       *       *       *       *

DOWN THE BAY.

Mr. Punchinello: It is just possible that you never went on a fine
fishing excursion down the Bay with a party of nice young men. If you
never did, don't. I confess it sounds well on paper. But it's a Deceit,
a Snare, and a Hollow Mockery. I will narrate.

Some days ago I was induced (the Deuce is in it if I ever am again) to
participate in a supposed festivity of this nature. In the first place,
we (the excursionists,) chartered a yacht, two Hands that knew the
Ropes--they looked as if they might have been acquainted with the Rope's
End--and a small Octoroon of the male persuasion as waiter. As CHOWLES
characteristically observed, (he is a Stock Broker, and was one of the
party,) "there is nothing like a feeling of Security." So we engaged a
Skipper who was perfectly familiar with the BARINGS of the Banks, and
Thoroughly Posted on all Sea 'Changes, at least so CHOWLES expressed it,
but then he is apt to be somewhat technical at times. This accomplished
mariner was reputed to have been "Round the Horn" several times, which I
am led to believe was perfectly true, as he smelt strongly of spirits
when he came on board. I was much discouraged at the appearance of this
Skipper, and had half a mind to give my friends the Slip when I saw him
on the Wharf.

Having manned our craft, we purchased a colossal refrigerator in which
to put our Bass and Weak Fish, laid in a stock of cold provisions--among
other things a Cold Shoulder--plenty of exhilarating beverages, and,
with Buoyant Spirits, (every Man of us,) and plenty of ice on board,
started on the slack of the Morning Tide. I regret to state that by the
time we were ready to start our Skipper was half way "Over the Bay,"
being provided with a pocket pistol charged to the muzzle. He and his
two subordinates were pretty well "Shot in the neck" by the time we
reached Fort Lafoyette. The consequence of this was that we no sooner
came Abreast of the reef in that locality than we got Afoul of it. For
getting Afoul of the Rocks we had to Fork over twenty dollars to the
captain of a tug boat which came and Snaked us off with a Coil of Rope
when the tide rose.

During the time we remained stationary, the Bottle, I am sorry to say,
kept going Round. All the excursionists except myself got half seas
over, and when we resumed our voyage the steersman had fallen asleep, so
the vessel left a Wake behind her which was extremely crooked.

We anchored that night outside Sandy Hook, and next morning cast our
lines overboard, and commenced fishing. Our success in that Line was
astounding, not to say embarrassing. We commenced to take Fish on an
unparalleled Scale. Dog Fish and Stingarees were hauled over the side
without intermission. The former is a kind of small shark. As they will
Swallow anything, we Took them In very fast Although extremely
voracious, they are so simple that if it were not for their size they
would fell an easy prey to the Sea Gull, which, in spite of its name, is
a very Wide Awake bird. Stingarees are fish of much more
Penetration--their sharp tails slashing everything that comes in their
way. These natural weapons, which have been furnished them by Providence
as a means of defence in their Extremity, cut through a fellow's
trousers like paper. The interesting creatures cut up so that we kindly
consigned them, together with the dog fish, to their native element,
having first benevolently knocked them on the head. Changing our
location for a change of luck, we captured a superb mess of sea robins
and toad fish. This satisfied us. So we pulled up anchor, not Hankering
for any more such sport, and left the Hook, very glad to Hook It. We
didn't have any of our toadies or robbins cooked, as those "spoils of
ocean," although interesting as marine curiosities, are not considered
good to eat, but each man had a Broil, as the Sun was very hot, and as
CHOWLES remarked, "brought out the Gravy." That night we turned in,
having been turned inside out all day. Next morning we reached home. The
skipper presented his Bill in the course of the day. Although extremely
exorbitant, we paid it without a murmur, being too much exhausted from
casting up accounts ourselves, to bring him to Book for his misconduct.
Such is the sad experience of

Yours Reverentially,

CHINCAPEN.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Pillar of Salt (Lake.)

Lot's (of) Wife.

  +--------------------------------------------------------------+
  |                                                              |
  |                     A. T. Stewart & Co.                      |
  |                                                              |
  |                  Are offering novelties in                   |
  |                                                              |
  |                    Crepe de Chine Sashes                     |
  |                                                              |
  |                     WITH HEAVY FRINGES,                      |
  |                                                              |
  |                The Latest Paris Style. Also,                 |
  |                                                              |
  |                    WIDE BLACK AND COLORED                    |
  |                         SASH RIBBONS                         |
  |                                                              |
  |                 Roman, Ecossais, Broche and                  |
  |                        Chine Ribbons,                        |
  |                                                              |
  |                        JUST RECEIVED.                        |
  |                                                              |
  |                          BROADWAY,                           |
  |                                                              |
  |              4th Avenue, 9th and 10th Streets.               |
  |                                                              |
  +--------------------------------------------------------------+
  |                     A. T. Stewart & Co.                      |
  |                                                              |
  |                Are closing out their stock of                |
  |                                                              |
  |                FRENCH, ENGLISH, AND DOMESTIC                 |
  |                                                              |
  |                           CARPETS,                           |
  |                                                              |
  |           Oil Cloths, Rugs, Mats, Cocoa and Canton           |
  |                      Mattings, &c., &c.                      |
  |                                                              |
  |               At a Great REDUCTION IN PRICES,                |
  |                                                              |
  |         Notwithstanding the unexpected extraordinary         |
  |                        rise in gold.                         |
  |                                                              |
  |          _Customers and Strangers are Respectfully_          |
  |                                                              |
  |                     INVITED TO EXAMINE.                      |
  |                                                              |
  |                          BROADWAY,                           |
  |                                                              |
  |              4th Avenue, 9th and 10th Streets.               |
  |                                                              |
  +--------------------------------------------------------------+
  |                                                              |
  |                    Extraordinay Bargains                     |
  |                                                              |
  |                              IN                              |
  |                                                              |
  |            LADIES' PARIS AND DOMESTIC READY-MADE             |
  |                                                              |
  |                   Suits, Robes, Reception                    |
  |                        Dresses, &c.,                         |
  |                                                              |
  |               Some less than half their cost.                |
  |                                                              |
  |             AND WE WILL DAILY OFFER NOVELTIES IN             |
  |                                                              |
  |               Plain and Braided Victoria Lawn,               |
  |                   Linen and Pique Traveling                  |
  |                                                              |
  |                            SUITS.                            |
  |                                                              |
  |                 CHILDREN'S BRAIDED LINEN AND                 |
  |                                                              |
  |                       Pique Garments,                        |
  |                                                              |
  |             SIZES FROM 2 YEARS TO 10 YEARS OLD.              |
  |                                                              |
  |                   PANIER BEDUOIN MANTLES,                    |
  |                      IN CHOICE COLORS,                       |
  |                                                              |
  |                    From $3.50 to $7 each.                    |
  |                                                              |
  |               Richly Embroidered Cashmere and                |
  |                   Cloth Breakfast Jackets,                   |
  |                                                              |
  |                         PARIS MADE,                          |
  |                                                              |
  |                     $8 each and upward.                      |
  |                                                              |
  |                     A. T. Steward & Co.                      |
  |                                                              |
  |                          BROADWAY,                           |
  |                                                              |
  |                4TH AVE., 9TH AND 10TH STREETS                |
  |                                                              |
  +--------------------------------------------------------------+
  |                                                              |
  |                         PUNCHINELLO.                         |
  |                                                              |
  |                                                              |
  | The first number of this Illustrated Humorous and Satirical  |
  | Weekly Paper was issued under date of April 2, 1870. The     |
  | Press and the Public in every State and Territory of the     |
  | Union endorse it as the best paper of its kind ever          |
  | published in America.                                        |
  |                                                              |
  | CONTENTS ENTIRELY ORIGINAL.                                  |
  |                                                              |
  | Subscription for one year, (with $2.00 premium,)  $4.00      |
  | " " six months, (without premium,)              2.00         |
  | " " three months, "       "                     1.00         |
  | Single copies mailed free, for                      .10      |
  |                                                              |
  | We offer the following elegant premiums of L. PRANG & CO'S   |
  | CHROMOS for subscriptions as follows:                        |
  |                                                              |
  | A copy of paper for one year, and                            |
  |                                                              |
  | "The Awakening," (a Litter of Puppies.) Half chromo.         |
  | Size 8-3/8 x 11-1/8 ($2.00 picture,)--for          $4.00     |
  |                                                              |
  | A copy of paper for one year and either of the               |
  | following $3.00 chromos:                                     |
  |                                                              |
  | Wild Roses. 12-1/8 x 9.                                      |
  | Dead Game. 11-1/8 x 8-1/8.                                   |
  | Easter Morning. 6-3/4 x 10-1/4--for                $5.00     |
  |                                                              |
  | A copy of paper--for one year and either of the              |
  | following $5.00 chromos:                                     |
  |                                                              |
  | Group of Chickens:                                           |
  | Group of Ducklings;                                          |
  | Group of Quails. Each 10 x 12-1/8.                           |
  |                                                              |
  | The Poultry Yard. 10-1/8 x 14.                               |
  |                                                              |
  | The Barefoot Boy; Wild Fruit. Each 9-3/4 x 13.               |
  |                                                              |
  | Pointer and Quail;                                           |
  | Spaniel and Woodcock. 10 x 12--for                 $6.50     |
  |                                                              |
  | A copy of paper for one year and either of the               |
  | following $6.00 chromos:                                     |
  |                                                              |
  | The Baby in Trouble;                                         |
  | The Unconscious Sleeper;                                     |
  | The Two Friends. (Dog and Child.) Each 13 x 16-1/4.          |
  |                                                              |
  | Spring; Summer; Autumn; 12-7/8 x 16-1/8.                     |
  |                                                              |
  | The Kid's Play Ground. 11 x 17-1/2--for             $7.00    |
  |                                                              |
  | A copy of paper for one year and either of the               |
  | following $7.50 chromos                                      |
  |                                                              |
  | Strawberries and Baskets.                                    |
  | Cherries and Baskets.                                        |
  | Currants. Each 13 x 18.                                      |
  |                                                              |
  | Horses in a Storm. 22-1/4 x 15-1/4.                          |
  |                                                              |
  | Six Central Park Views. (A set.) 9 1/8 x 4 1/2--for  $8.00   |
  |                                                              |
  | A copy of paper for one year and                             |
  |                                                              |
  | Six American Landscapes. (A set.)                            |
  | 4-3/8 x 9, price $9.00--for                          $9.00   |
  |                                                              |
  | A copy of paper for one year and either of the               |
  | following $10 chromos:                                       |
  |                                                              |
  | Sunset in California. (Bierstadt) 18-1/8 x 12                |
  |                                                              |
  | Easter Morning. 14 x 21.                                     |
  |                                                              |
  | Corregio's Magdalen. 12-1/2 x 16-3/8.                        |
  |                                                              |
  | Summer Fruit, and Autumn Fruit. (Half chromos,)              |
  | 15-1/2 x 10-1/2, (companions, price $10.00 for the two),     |
  | for $10.00                                                   |
  |                                                              |
  | Remittances should be made in P.O. Orders, Drafts, or Bank   |
  | Checks on New York, or Registered letters. The paper will be |
  | sent from the first number, (April 2d, 1870,) when not       |
  | otherwise ordered.                                           |
  |                                                              |
  | Postage of paper is payable at the office where received,    |
  | twenty cents per year, or five cents per quarter, in         |
  | advance; the CHROMOS will be _mailed free_ on receipt of     |
  | money.                                                       |
  |                                                              |
  | CANVASSERS WANTED, to whom liberal commissions will be       |
  | given. For special terms address the Company.                |
  |                                                              |
  | The first ten numbers will be sent to any one desirous of    |
  | seeing the paper before subscribing, for SIXTY CENTS. A      |
  | specimen copy sent to any one desirous of canvassing or      |
  | getting up a club, on receipt of postage stamp.              |
  |                                                              |
  | Address,                                                     |
  |                                                              |
  | PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO.,                                  |
  |                                                              |
  | P.O. Box 2783.    No. 83 Nassau Street, New York.            |
  |                                                              |
  +--------------------------------------------------------------+


[Illustration: A CHINAMAN'S FUNERAL]


  +--------------------------------------------------------------+
  |                                                              |
  | PRANG'S LATEST PUBLICATIONS: "Wild Flowers," "Water-Lilies," |
  |                       "Chas. Dickens."                       |
  |                                                              |
  |    PRANG'S CHROMOS sold in all Art Stores throughout the     |
  |                            world.                            |
  |                                                              |
  | PRANG'S ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE sent free on receipt of stamp. |
  |                                                              |
  |                   L. PRANG & CO., Boston.                    |
  |                                                              |
  +--------------------------------------------------------------+
  |                                                              |
  |                         PUNCHINELLO.                         |
  |                                                              |
  |   With a large and varied experience in the management and   |
  | publication of a paper of the class herewith submitted, and  |
  |  with the still more positive advantage of an Ample Capital  |
  |               to justify the undertaking, the                |
  |                                                              |
  |                  PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO.                  |
  |                                                              |
  |                   OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK,                   |
  |                                                              |
  |         Presents to the public for approval, the new         |
  |                                                              |
  |              ILLUSTRATED HUMOROUS AND SATIRICAL              |
  |                                                              |
  |                        WEEKLY PAPER,                         |
  |                                                              |
  |                         PUNCHINELLO,                         |
  |                                                              |
  |          The first number of which was issued under          |
  |                       date of April 2.                       |
  |                                                              |
  |                      ORIGINAL ARTICLES,                      |
  |                                                              |
  | Suitable for the paper, and Original Designs, or suggestive  |
  | ideas or sketches for illustrations, upon the topics of the  |
  |  day, are always acceptable and will be paid for liberally.  |
  |                                                              |
  |      Rejected communications cannot be returned, unless      |
  |                 postage stamps are inclosed.                 |
  |                                                              |
  |                            TERMS:                            |
  |                                                              |
  |One copy, per year, in advance. . . . . . . . . . . . . $4.00 |
  |Single copies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10 |
  |                                                              |
  |         A specimen copy will be mailed free upon the         |
  |                    receipt of ten cents.                     |
  |     One copy, with the Riverside Magazine, or any other      |
  |magazine or paper, price, $2.50, for. . . . . . . . . .  5.50 |
  |One copy, with any magazine or paper, price, $4, for. .  7.00 |
  |                                                              |
  |  All communications, remittances, etc., to be addressed to   |
  |                                                              |
  |                 PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING CO.,                  |
  |                                                              |
  |                    No. 83 Nassau Street,                     |
  |                                                              |
  |                       P.O. Box, 2783,                        |
  |                                                              |
  |                          NEW YORK.                           |
  |                                                              |
  +--------------------------------------------------------------+
  |                                                              |
  |                Tourists and Pleasure Traveler                |
  |                                                              |
  |   will be glad to learn that the Erie Railway Company has    |
  |                           prepared                           |
  |                                                              |
  |                    COMBINATION EXCURSION                     |
  |                                                              |
  |                              OR                              |
  |                                                              |
  |                     Round Trip Tickets,                      |
  |                                                              |
  |    Valid during the entire season, and embracing Ithaca--    |
  | headwaters of Cayuga Lake--Niagara Falls, Lake Ontario, the  |
  |  River St. Lawrence, Montreal, Quebec, Lake Champlain, Lake  |
  |   George, Saratoga, the White Mountains, and all principal   |
  | points of interest in Northern New York, the Canada, and New |
  | England. Also similar Tickets at reduced rates, through Lake |
  |  Superior, enabling travelers to visit the celebrated Iron   |
  |  Mountains and Copper Mines of that region. By applying at   |
  |  the Offices of the Erie Railway Co., Nos. 241, 529 and 957  |
  | Broadway; 205 Chambers St.; 38 Greenwich St.; cor. 125th St. |
  |  and Third Avenue, Harlem; 338 Fulton St., Brooklyn; Depots  |
  | foot of Chambers Street, and foot of 23rd St., New York; No. |
  | 3 Exchange Place, and Long Dock Depot, Jersey City, and the  |
  |  Agents at the principal hotels, travelers can obtain just   |
  |     the Ticket they desire, as well as all the necessary     |
  |                         information.                         |
  |                                                              |
  +--------------------------------------------------------------+
  |                                                              |
  |          "The Printing House of the United States."          |
  |                                                              |
  |                    GEO. F. NESBITT & CO.,                    |
  |                                                              |
  |                    General JOB PRINTERS,                     |
  |                                                              |
  |                  BLANK BOOK Manufacturers,                   |
  |              STATIONERS, Wholesale and Retail,               |
  |             LITHOGRAPHIC Engravers and Printers,             |
  |             COPPER-PLATE Engravers and Printers,             |
  |                     CARD Manufacturers,                      |
  |                 FINE CUT and COLOR Printers.                 |
  |                                                              |
  |              163, 165, 167, and 169 PEARL ST.,               |
  |            73, 75, 77, and 79 PINE ST., New York.            |
  |                                                              |
  |       ADVANTAGES. All on the same premises, and under        |
  |          immediate supervision of the proprietors.           |
  |                                                              |
  +--------------------------------------------------------------+
  |                                                              |
  |                   MYSTERY OF MR. E. DROOD.                   |
  |                                                              |
  |                  The New Burlesque Serial,                   |
  |                                                              |
  |              Written expressly for PUNCHINELLO,              |
  |                                                              |
  |                              BY                              |
  |                                                              |
  |                       ORPHEUS C. KERR,                       |
  |                                                              |
  | Commenced in No. 11, will be continued weekly throughout the |
  |                            year.                             |
  |                                                              |
  | A sketch of the eminent author, written by his bosom friend, |
  |                 with superb illustrations of                 |
  |                                                              |
  |    1ST. THE AUTHOR'S PALATIAL RESIDENCE AT BEGAD'S HILL,     |
  |                 TICKNOR'S FIELDS, NEW JERSEY                 |
  |                                                              |
  | 2D. THE AUTHOR AT THE DOOR OF SAID PALATIAL RESIDENCE, taken |
  |   as he appears "Every Saturday, will also be found in the   |
  |                         same number.                         |
  |                                                              |
  |   Single Copies, for sale by all newsmen, (or mailed from    |
  |                this office, free,) Ten Cents.                |
  |                                                              |
  |     Subscription for One Year, one copy, with $2 Chromo      |
  |                         Premium, $4.                         |
  |                                                              |
  |  Those desirous of receiving the paper containing this new   |
  |    serial, which promises to be the best ever written by     |
  | ORPHEUS C. KERR, should subscribe now, to insure its regular |
  |                       receipt weekly.                        |
  |                                                              |
  |   We will send the first Ten Numbers of PUNCHINELLO to any   |
  |  one who wishes to see them, in view of subscribing, on the  |
  |                   receipt of SIXTY CENTS.                    |
  |                                                              |
  |                           Address,                           |
  |                                                              |
  |               PUNCHINELLO PUBLISHING COMPANY,                |
  |                                                              |
  |                   83 Nassau St., New York.                   |
  |                                                              |
  |                        P.O. Box 2783.                        |
  |                                                              |
  +--------------------------------------------------------------+






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Punchinello, Vol. 1, No. 19, August 6,
1870, by Various

*** 