- 1913***


Credit for e-text: The Library of Congress, Joshua Hutchinson, David King,
and the Project Gutenberg Online Distributed Proofreading Team



SPALDING'S OFFICIAL ATHLETIC LIBRARY

BASEBALL GUIDE

1913

EDITED BY

JOHN B. FOSTER


PRICE 10 CENTS

PUBLISHED BY

AMERICAN SPORTS PUBLISHING CO.,
21 Warren Street, New York City.




[Advertisement]

AMERICA'S NATIONAL GAME

By A. G. SPALDING

PRICE, $2.00 NET

A book of 600 pages, profusely illustrated with over 100 full page
engravings, and having sixteen forceful cartoons by Homer C. Davenport,
the famous American artist.

The above work should have a place in every public library in this
country, as also in the libraries of public schools and private houses.

The author of "America's National Game" is conceded, always, everywhere,
and by everybody, to have the best equipment of any living writer to
treat the subject that forms the text of this remarkable volume, viz.,
the story of the origin, development and evolution of Base Ball, the
National Game of our country.

Almost from the very inception of the game until the present time--as
player, manager and magnate--Mr. Spalding has been closely identified
with its interests. Not infrequently he has been called upon in times of
emergency to prevent threatened disaster. But for him the National Game
would have been syndicated and controlled by elements whose interests
were purely selfish and personal.

The book is a veritable repository of information concerning players,
clubs and personalities connected with the game in its early days, and
is written in a most interesting style, interspersed with enlivening
anecdotes and accounts of events that have not heretofore been
published.

The response on the part of the press and the public to Mr. Spalding's
efforts to perpetuate the early history of the National Game has been
very encouraging and he is in receipt of hundreds of letters and
notices, a few of which are here given.

ROBERT ADAMSON, New York, writing from the office of Mayor Gaynor,
says:--"Seeing the Giants play is my principal recreation and I am
interested in reading everything I can find about the game. I especially
enjoy what you [Mr. Spalding] have written, because you stand as the
highest living authority on the game."

BARNEY DREYFUSS, owner of the Pittsburg National League club:--"It does
honor to author as well as the game. I have enjoyed reading it very
much."

WALTER CAMP, well known foot ball expert and athlete, says:--"It is
indeed a remarkable work and one that I have read with a great deal of
interest."

JOHN B. DAY, formerly President of the New York Nationals:--"Your
wonderful work will outlast all of us."

W. IRVING SNYDER, formerly of the house of Peck & Snyder:--"I have read
the book from cover to cover with great interest."

ANDREW PECK, formerly of the celebrated firm of Peck & Snyder:--"All
base ball fans should read and see how the game was conducted in early
years."

MELVILLE E. STONE, New York, General Manager Associated Press:--"I find
it full of valuable information and very interesting. I prize it very
highly."

GEORGE BARNARD, Chicago:--"Words fail to express my appreciation of the
book. It carries me back to the early days of base ball and makes me
feel like a young man again."

CHARLES W. MURPHY, President Chicago National League club:--"The book is
a very valuable work and will become a part of every base ball library
in the country."

JOHN F. MORILL, Boston, Mass., old time base ball star.--"I did not
think it possible for one to become so interested in a book on base
ball. I do not find anything in it which I can criticise."

RALPH D. PAINE, popular magazine writer and a leading authority on
college sport:--"I have been reading the book with a great deal of
interest. 'It fills a long felt want,' and you are a national benefactor
for writing it."

GEN. FRED FUNSTON, hero of the Philippine war:--"I read the book with a
great deal of pleasure and was much interested in seeing the account of
base ball among the Asiatic whalers, which I had written for Harper's
Round Table so many years ago."

DEWOLF HOPPER, celebrated operatic artist and comedian:--"Apart from the
splendid history of the evolution of the game, it perpetuates the
memories of the many men who so gloriously sustained it. It should be
read by every lover of the sport."

HUGH NICOL, Director of Athletics, Purdue University, Lafayette,
Ind.:--"No one that has read this book has appreciated it more than I.
Ever since I have been big enough, I have been in professional base
ball, and you can imagine how interesting the book is to me."

MRS. BRITTON, owner of the St. Louis Nationals, through her treasurer,
H.D. Seekamp, writes:--"Mrs. Britton has been very much interested in
the volume and has read with pleasure a number of chapters, gaining
valuable information as to the history of the game."

REV. CHARLES H. PARKHURST, D.D., New York:--"Although I am not very much
of a 'sport,' I nevertheless believe in sports, and just at the present
time in base ball particularly. Perhaps if all the Giants had an
opportunity to read the volume before the recent game (with the
Athletics) they might not have been so grievously outdone."

BRUCE CARTWRIGHT, son of Alexander J. Cartwright, founder of the
Knickerbocker Base Ball Club, the first organization of ball players in
existence, writing from his home at Honolulu, Hawaiian Islands,
says:--"I have read the book with great interest and it is my opinion
that no better history of base ball could have been written."

GEORGE W. FROST, San Diego, Calif.:--"You and 'Jim' White, George
Wright, Barnes, McVey, O'Rourke, etc., were little gods to us back there
in Boston in those days of '74 and '75, and I recall how indignant we
were when you 'threw us down' for the Chicago contract. The book is
splendid. I treasure it greatly."

A.J. REACH, Philadelphia, old time professional expert:--"It certainly
is an interesting revelation of the national game from the time, years
before it was so dignified, up to the present. Those who have played the
game, or taken an interest in it in the past, those at present engaged
in it, together with all who are to engage in it, have a rare treat in
store."

DR. LUTHER H. GULICK, Russell Sage Foundation:--"Mr. Spalding has been
the largest factor in guiding the development of the game and thus
deserves to rank with other great men of the country who have
contributed to its success. It would have added to the interest of the
book if Mr. Spalding could have given us more of his own personal
experiences, hopes and ambitions in connection with the game."

_Pittsburg Press_:--"Historical incidents abound and the book is an
excellent authority on the famous sport."

_Philadelphia Telegraph_:--"In this book Mr. Spalding has written the
most complete and authoritative story of base ball yet published."

_New York Herald_:--"If there is anyone in the country competent to
write a book on base ball it is A.G. Spalding who has been interested in
the game from its early beginnings."

I.E. Sanborn, Chicago _Tribune_:--"'America's National Game' has been
added to the _Tribune's_ sporting reference library as an invaluable
contribution to the literature of the national pastime."

O.C. Reichard, Chicago _Daily News_:--"It is cleverly written and
presents information and dates of great value to the newspaper man of
to-day!"

George C. Rice, Chicago _Journal_:--"I have read the book through, and
take pleasure in stating that it is a complete history of the game from
the beginning until the present time."

Sherman R. Duffy, Sporting Editor _Chicago Journal_:--"It is a most
interesting work and one for which there was need. It is the most
valuable addition to base ball literature that has yet been put out."

Joseph H. Vila, New York _Sun_:--"I have read it carefully and with much
interest. It is the best piece of base ball literature I have ever seen,
and I congratulate you on the work."

Tim Murnane, Sporting Editor _Boston Globe_:--"You have given to the
world a book of inestimable value, a classic in American history; a book
that should be highly prized in every home library in the country."

Francis C. Richter, Editor _Sporting Life_, Philadelphia:--"From a
purely literary standpoint, your work is to me amazing. Frankly, I would
not change a line, for the reason that the story is told in a way to
grip the reader and hold his interest continually."

_Los Angeles Times_ (editorial):--"Spalding's book has been out six
months and ninety thousand copies have been sold. We understand there
will be other editions. America has taken base ball seriously for at
last two generations, and it is time enough that the fad was given an
adequate text book."

Caspar Whitney, Editor _Outdoor America_, and one of the leading
authorities in the world on sport:--"You have made an invaluable
contribution to the literature of the game, and one none else could have
made. Moreover, you've done some very interesting writing, which is a
distinct novelty in such books--too often dull and uninteresting."

_New York World_:--"Albert G. Spalding, who really grew up with the
sport, has written 'America's National Game,' which he describes as not
a history, but the simple story of the game as he has come to know it.
His book, therefore, is full of living interest. It is a volume
generously illustrated and abounds in personal memories of base ball in
the making."

_New York Sun_:--"There is a mass of interesting information regarding
base ball, as might be expected, in Mr. Spalding's 'America's National
Game.' It is safe to say that before Spalding there was no base ball.
The book is no record of games and players, but it is historical in a
broader sense, and the author is able to give his personal decisive
testimony about many disputed points."

_Evening Telegram_, New York:--"In clear, concise, entertaining,
narrative style, Albert G. Spalding has contributed in many respects the
most interesting work pertaining to base ball, the national game, which
has been written.

"There is so much in it of interest that the temptation not to put it
down until it is completed is strong within the mind of every person who
begins to read it. As a historical record it is one of those volumes
which will go further to straighten some disputed points than all of the
arguments which could be advanced in good natured disputes which might
last for months."

_Providence_ (R. I.) _Tribune_:--"The pictures of old time teams players
and magnates of a bygone era will interest every lover of the game, and
no doubt start many discussions and recollections among the old timers."

_New York Evening Mail_:--"Were it possible to assemble the grand army
of base ball fans in convention, their first act probably would be to
pass a vote of thanks to Mr. A.G. Spalding for his work 'America's
National Game'."

_Columbus_ (Ohio) _Dispatch_:--"Never before has been put in print so
much of authentic record of this distinctly national game, and it will
be long, if ever, until so thoroughly interesting and useful a volume is
published to cover the same field."

_New Orleans Picayune_:--"The pictures of old time teams, players and
magnates of a bygone era will interest every lover of the game. Homer
Davenport, America's great cartoonist, has contributed drawings in his
inimitable style of various phases of the game."

_Indianapolis Star_:--"From cover to cover, the 542 pages are filled
with material for 'fanning bees,' which the average 'fan' never before
encountered. It is an interesting volume for anyone who follows the
national pastime and a valuable addition to any library."

_Buffalo News_:--"No book on base ball has ever been written that is
superior to this one by A.G. Spalding. The book is admirably written,
yet without any frills. Many of the more notable incidents recounted in
this book are having wide publication by themselves."

_Brooklyn Times_:--"The book is practically a compendium of the salient
incidents in the evolution of professional base ball. Mr. Spalding is
pre-eminently fitted to perform this service, his connection with the
game having been contemporaneous with its development, as player, club
owner and league director."

_Washington_ (D. C.) _Star_:--"This work appeals with peculiar force to
the public. Mr. Spalding's name is almost synonymous with base ball. He
has worked to the end of producing a volume which tells the story of the
game vividly and accurately. Taken altogether, this is a most valuable
and entertaining work."

_New York American_:--"One of the best selling books of the season has
been 'America's National Game,' by A.G. Spalding. The first edition of
five thousand copies has been sold out (in two months) and a second
edition of five thousand is now on the press. As a Christmas gift from
father to son, it is most appropriate."

_Cincinnati Enquirer_:--"As a veteran of the diamond, well qualified to
do so, Mr. Spalding has committed to print a professional's version of
the distinctly American game. This well known base ball celebrity has a
store of familiar anecdotes embracing the entire period of the game as
now played and the reader will find it most interesting."

_Teacher and Home, New York_:--"Every live father of a live boy will
want to buy this book. It is said of some of the 'best sellers' that
they hold one to the end. This book holds the reader with its anecdote,
its history, its pictures; but it will have no end; for no home--no
American home--will be complete hereafter without it."

_Buffalo Times_:--"A.G. Spalding, with whose name every American boy is
familiar, has been prevailed upon to commit to print events which were
instrumental in guiding the destinies of the National League during the
trying period of its early days. To write upon base ball in a historical
manner, and yet not fall into the habit of quoting interminable
statistics, is a feat that few could accomplish."

_Cincinnati Times-Star_:--"'America's National Game,' A.G. Spalding's
great book upon the diamond sport, is now upon the market and receiving
well merited attention. It tells the story as Mr. Spalding saw it, and
no man has been in position to see more. When 'Al' Spalding, the sinewy
pitcher of nearly forty years ago, came into the arena, the game was
young, and through all the changing seasons that have seen it mature
into full bloom, its closest watcher and strongest friend has been the
same 'Al' Spalding."

_Cincinnati Time-Star_:--"The book is at once a history, a cyclopaedia
and a most entertaining volume."

_New York American_:--"'America's National Game' tells for the first
time the history of the national game of base ball."

_Portland Oregonian_:--"The book is of rare interest and has such
personal value in the story line that one hardly knows where to begin in
making quotations from it--all the stories told are so admirable."

JOHN T. NICHOLSON, Principal Public School 186, New York:--"It's a great
book."

REV. W.A. SUNDAY, Evangelist:--"No one in America is better qualified to
talk of base ball, from its inception to its present greatness, than
A.G. Spalding."

WM. L. VEECK and ED. W. SMITH, of the Chicago _American_:--"We have
found much enjoyment in reading the book, and it is very valuable in our
work."

W.H. CONANT, Gossamer Rubber Co., Boston, Mass.:--"I have read the book
with great pleasure and it produced a vivid reminiscence of the striking
events in base ball, so full of interest to all lovers of the game."

JOSEPH B. MACCABE, Editor East Boston (Mass.) _Argus-Advocate_, and
ex-President Amateur Athletic Union:--"I want to express my gratitude,
as a humble follower of manly sport, for the compilation of this
historic work."

JOHN A. LOWELL, President John A. Lowell Bank Note Company, Boston,
Mass.:--"I have read the book with great interest and it certainly is a
valuable compilation of facts relating to the history of base ball, the
great national game of America. I prize it very highly."

WM. F. GARCELON, Harvard Athletic Association, Cambridge, Mass.:--"I
think 'America's National Game' is not only intensely interesting but
most valuable, as giving the history of the game. Better still, my nine
year old boy is looking forward to the time when he can get it away from
me."

GUSTAV T. KIRBY, President of the Amateur Athletic Union:--"Not only as
a historical sketch of this great national game, but also as a technical
dissertation on base ball as it was and is, this book will not only be
of interest but of benefit to all of us Americans who are interested in
sport--and what American is not interested in sport?--and being
interested in sport, chiefly in base ball."

EVERETT C. BROWN, Chicago, ex-president of the Amateur Athletic Union of
the United States:--"It is very seldom that any history of any sport or
anything pertaining to athletics approaches the interest with which one
reads a popular work of fiction, but I can truthfully say that I have
read the story of the great national game with as much interest as I
have read any recent work of fiction."

THOMAS F. GRAHAM, Judge Superior Court, San Francisco:--"'America's
National Game' contains matter on the origin and development of base
ball--the greatest game ever devised by man--that will be of the utmost
interest to the base ball loving people, not only of this, but of every
English speaking country; and I am sure it will perpetuate the name of
A.G. Spalding to the end of time."




SPALDING'S OFFICIAL ATHLETIC LIBRARY

SPALDING'S OFFICIAL BASE BALL GUIDE

Thirty-seventh Year

1913

EDITED BY

JOHN B. FOSTER

AMERICAN SPORTS PUBLISHING COMPANY
21 Warren Street, New York




CONTENTS


A Remarkable Base Ball Tournament

A World's Series Problem

American League Averages, Official

American League Season of 1912

Base Ball Writers of the South

Base Ball Worth While?

Base Ball Playing Rules, Official
  Index to Playing
  Ready Reference Index to

Base Ball Playing Rules, Spalding's Simplified--
  Ball
  Ball Ground
  Balls, Providing
  Balls, Soiling
  Base Running Rules
  Bat, Regulation
  Batting Rules
  Benches, Players
  Coaching Rules
  Definitions, General
  Field for Play, Fitness of
  Field Rules
  Game, Regulation
  Gloves and Mitts, Regulation
  Ground Rules
  Innings, Choice of
  Players, Numbers and Position of
  Players, Substitute
  Pitching Rules
  Scoring Rules
  Scoring of Runs
  Umpires' Authority
  Umpires' Duties
  Uniforms

Club Rosters of 1912, Official

Diagram, Correct, of a Ball Field

Editorial Comment

Elementary School Base Ball Tournament

Introduction

John Tomlinson Brush

National League Season of 1912

National League Averages, Official

National Association of Professional Base Ball Leagues--
  American Association
  Appalachian League
  Blue Grass League
  Border League
  Canadian League
  Central Association
  Central Kansas League
  Central League
  Cotton States League
  Eastern Association
  Illinois-Missouri League
  Indiana-Illinois-Iowa League
  International League
  Kentucky-Ind.-Tenn. League
  Michigan State League
  "Mink" League
  New York State League
  New England League
  Nebraska State League
  North Carolina League
  Northwestern League
  Ohio and Pennsylvania League
  Ohio State League
  Pacific Coast League
  South Atlantic League
  Southeastern League
  Southern Association
  Southern Michigan Association
  Texas League
  Tri-State League
  Union Association
  Virginia League
  Western Canada League
  Western League

New Faces in the Old League

Notes

Schedules--
  American League
  International League
  National League
  Northwestern League
  Southern Michigan
  Texas League

The Spalding Base Ball Hall of Fame

The World's Series of 1912

The Umpires

NOTICE--To give adequate representation to College and School Base Ball
Teams, which heretofore has not been possible in the Guide owing to lack
of room, "Spalding's Official Collegiate Base Ball Annual" will be
issued in February. It will contain complete college records, pictures
and information exclusively pertaining to College Base Ball. Price 10
cents.




INTRODUCTION


In preparing this issue of SPALDING'S OFFICIAL BASE BALL GUIDE for the
season of 1913, it has occurred to the Editor that the season of 1912,
and the period which followed its completion, have been filled, with a
great deal of unusual and uncommon vicissitude.

In the first place the personnel of the National League, the oldest Base
Ball organization in the world, has been greatly changed by reason of
death and purchase of one franchise. New owners have brought new faces
into the game, and when the National League starts on this year's
campaign there will be some younger but equally as ambitious men at the
heads of some of the clubs.

The players have effected an organization. That, too, is an incident of
interest, for it is well within the memory of the Base Ball "fans" of
this day what happened when another organization was perfected in the
past. For this organization it may be said that the members promise that
it will be their object to bring about better deportment on the part of
their own associates and that they will work their best for the
advancement of Base Ball from a professional standpoint. If they do this
they will be of benefit to the sport. If they work from selfish motives
it is inevitable that eventually there will be a clash, as there was in
the past.

The last world's series which was played was the greatest special series
of games which has been played in the history of the national pastime.
There may have been single games and there may have been series which
have attracted their full measure of interest from the Base Ball "fans,"
but there never has been a special series so filled with thrills and
excitement as that between the New York and Boston clubs. The GUIDE this
year enters into the subject thoroughly with photographs and a story of
the games and feels that the readers will enjoy the account of the
contests.

Some innovations have been attempted in this number of the GUIDE which
should interest Base Ball readers. Attention is called to the symposium
by prominent Base Ball writers which brings up a subject of interest in
regard to future world's series. There are other special articles,
including something about the Base Ball writers of the South, who have
decided to organize a chapter of their own.

The year 1912 was one of progress and advancement on the part of Base
Ball throughout the world. To-day it not only is stronger than ever as
America's national game but it is making fast progress in other
countries because of the attractiveness of the pastime.

The Editor of the GUIDE wishes its thousands of readers an even more
enjoyable Base Ball year in 1913 than they had in 1912. This publication
is now one of worldwide circulation, and carries the gospel of Base
Ball, not only across the Atlantic ocean, but across the Pacific ocean
as well. One of these days it may be its province to report a series for
the international championship, and then Base Ball will have become the
universal game of the world, a place toward which it is rapidly tending.

THE EDITOR.




EDITORIAL COMMENT

BY JOHN B. FOSTER.


PROGRESS OF AMERICA'S NATIONAL GAME

Two more nations have been conquered by the national game of the United
States; a whole race has succumbed to the fascinations of the greatest
of all outdoor sports. Both France and Sweden have announced their
intention of organizing Base Ball leagues. That of Sweden is well under
way. Indeed, they have a club in Stockholm and there are more to follow,
while the French, who have gradually been awakening to the joys of
athletic pastime in which they have hitherto chosen to participate in
other ways, hope to have a new league by the expiration of the present
summer.

There is no doubt as to their intention to play Base Ball. They are
making efforts to procure suitable players from the United States to
coach them and the French promoters of the sport are determined that
their young men shall be given every opportunity to take advantage of
the game of which they have heard so much, and have seen so little.

Last year in the GUIDE it was the pleasure of the editor to call
attention to the fact that the Japanese had so thoroughly grasped Base
Ball that they were bent on some day playing an American team for the
international championship. It is not probable that such a series will
take place within the next five years, but not improbable that it will
take place within the next decade. When the Japanese learn to bat
better, and with more effect, they will become more dangerous rivals to
the peace of mind of the American players. They have grasped the general
theory of the game amazingly well, and they field well, but they have
yet to develop some of those good old fashioned "clean up" hitters in
which the "fans" of the United States revel.

This season it comes to the attention of the editor of the GUIDE that
more progress has been made in China in regard to Base Ball than in any
fifty years preceding. True, there was not much Base Ball in the fifty
years preceding, but now there is. There is a league at Hong Kong. There
are Base Ball teams at Shanghai and other cities.

Dr. Eliot, former president of Harvard, who recently returned from a
trip around the world, holds that Base Ball has done more to humanize
and civilize the Chinese than any influence which has been introduced by
foreigners, basing his statement on the fact that the introduction of
the sport among the younger Chinese has exerted a tremendous restraint
upon their gambling propensities.

It is a rather queer fact that where the civilizations are older in the
countries of the Occident there is a greater tendency to gamble,
especially among the young, than there is in the newer America.
Doubtless this is largely due to the lack of athletic pastime. The young
of those countries know little or nothing about simple amusements which
are so popular in the United States, and acquire from their elders their
knowledge of betting and taking part in games of chance, two evils which
unquestionably have done much to degrade the race as a whole.

Base Ball has caught the fancy of the younger generation and the boys.
Once they get a ball and a bat in their hands they are better satisfied
with them than with all the gambling devices which have been bequeathed
to them by a long and eminent line of forefathers.

So it would appear that the introduction of the national game of the
United States into China is likely to exert a humanizing influence which
shall go further than legislation or sword, and if only the missionaries
had grasped earlier the wishes and the tendency of the younger element
of the Chinese population, the country might be further along than it is
with its progressive movement.

In the Philippine Islands the younger generation simply has gone wild
over Base Ball. Progress has been noted in the GUIDE from time to time
of the increase of interest but it is now at such a pitch that the boys
of the islands, wherever Base Ball has been introduced, simply have
deserted everything for it. They will play nothing else. The cockfights
and the gambling games, which were also a part of the amusement of the
younger men, have been given up. The little fellows who wear not much
more than a breechclout play Base Ball. They have picked up many of the
American terms and one of the most amusing of experiences is to stand
outside the walls of old Manila and hear the little brown boys call:
"Shoot it over. Line it out," and the like, returning to their native
language, and jabbering excitedly in Filipino whenever they arrive at
some point of play in which their command of English fails them.

Twenty years from now a league including cities of the Philippines,
China and Japan, is by no means out of the question, and it may be that
the introduction of Base Ball into all three countries will result in a
better understanding between the peoples and perhaps bring all three
races to a better frame of mind as relates to their personal ambitions
and rivalries.

In connection with the widespread influence which Base Ball is having on
both sides of the world, on the shores of the Pacific Ocean and on those
of the Atlantic Ocean the editor would like to call attention to the
theory which has been advanced by Mr. A.G. Spalding, the founder of the
GUIDE, as to the efficacy of Base Ball for the purpose of training
athletes, that has a worldwide application.

Mr. Spalding contends that Base Ball has lent no small assistance to the
athletes of the United States in helping them to win premier honors at
the Olympic Games since their reintroduction. Mr. Spalding was the first
American Commissioner to the Olympic Games appointed to that post, the
honor being conferred upon him in 1900, when the late President McKinley
gave him his commission to represent the United States at Paris in 1900.
Mr. Spalding, with his analytical mind has reasoned out a theory which
is undoubtedly of great accuracy, and which is further corroborated by
an interview given out in London--strangely enough on the same day that
Mr. Spalding gave utterance to his ideas in Los Angeles--by Mr. J.E.
Sullivan, American Commissioner to the Olympic Games at Stockholm last
year, while returning to the United States after witnessing the triumphs
of the Americans. Mr. Spalding said:

"I cannot say that I am at all surprised at the result at Stockholm.
History has been repeating itself in this way ever since the celebration
of the Olympic games was inaugurated at Athens. America won the victory
there in 1896; she triumphed again at Paris in 1900; our athletes
defeated the contestants at St. Louis in 1904; the victory was ours at
London in 1908, and it was a foregone conclusion that we would win at
Stockholm.

"But there is food for thought in this uninterrupted succession of
triumphs. Why do our athletes always win? All other things being equal,
the contestants in the country holding the event should naturally come
to the front. Their numbers are always greater than those from any other
country and the home grounds influence is strong. However, that
advantage has not in any case prevented American success.

"Therefore there must be a cause. What is it? Measured by scale and
tape, our athlete's are not so much superior as a class. The theory of
'more beef' must be discarded. We may not lay claim to having all the
best trainers of the world. We must look to some other source for
American prowess.

"I may be a prejudiced judge, but I believe the whole secret of these
continued successes is to be found to the kind of training that comes
with the playing of America's national game, and our competitors in
other lands may never hope to reach the standard of American athletes
until they learn this lesson and adopt our pastime.

"The question, 'When should the training of a child begin?' has been
wisely answered by the statement that it should antedate his birth. The
training of Base Ball may not go back quite that far, but it approaches
the time as nearly as practicable, for America starts training of future
Olympian winners very early in life. Youngsters not yet big enough to
attend school begin quickening their eyesight and sharpening their wits
and strengthening their hands and arms and legs by playing on base ball
fields ready at hand in the meadows of farms, the commons of villages
and the parks of cities all over the land. Base ball combines running,
jumping, throwing and everything that constitutes the athletic events of
the Olympian games. But above all, it imparts to the player that degree
of confidence in competition, that indefinable something that enables
one athlete to win over another who may be his physical equal but who is
lacking the American spirit begotten of base ball.

"An analysis of the 1912 Olympian games shows that the American showed
to best advantage in contests where the stress of competition was
hardest. In the dashes they were supreme; in the hurdles they were in a
class by themselves, and in the high jump and pole vault there was no
one worthy of their steel. Whenever quick thinking and acting was
required, an American was in front. Does not this fact prove that the
American game of base ball enables the player to determine in the
fraction of a second what to do to defeat his contestant?"

       *       *       *       *       *

WHAT A SEASON OF BASE BALL COSTS

It may not be out of place to say a few words in regard to the greatly
increased cost of Base Ball. There are some sensational writers whose
hobby is to inform the public about the great receipts in Base Ball.
Usually they exaggerate from twenty-five to thirty-five per cent.

Now as to the expense of Base Ball. Figures at an approximate for the
National League will be offered. Railroad expenses for mileage alone
$300,000, including spring training trips. Hotel bills $65,000. Sleeping
cars and meals en route, $80,000. Salaries to players, $480,000. Total,
$875,000. Add to this $30,000 for the salaries of umpires and their
traveling expenses. That makes $905,000.

Now not a penny has been appropriated thus far for the salaries of the
president of the National League, the secretary and expenditures of the
office nor for the salaries of the business departments of the various
clubs, nor for ground rents, taxes and a dozen and one other things, to
say nothing of that well-known old item "wear and tear."

The receipts of Base Ball barely cover these expenditures. The alleged
profits of Base Ball mostly are fanciful dreams of those who know
nothing of the practical side of the sport and are stunned when they are
made acquainted with the real financial problems which confront club
owners.

But the money that is contributed to the support of the game almost
immediately finds its way back into public channels. Less than thirty
per cent. of Base Ball clubs realize what a business man would call a
fair return on the amount invested.

A well-known writer on economic topics interviewed owners of Base Ball
clubs as to their income and outgo. One of the best known of the
National League men took the writer into his office and spread the cash
book of the club's business before him.

"You may go through it if you wish," said the owner, "but here is the
balance for the last day of the year."

It read as follows: Receipts, $250,505; expenditures, $246,447.

"That's answer enough for me," said the writer. "I am through with any
more essays on the affluence of Base Ball 'magnates.' I think it would
be better to extend them the hand of charity than the mailed fist."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NEW ORGANIZATION OF PLAYERS

The formation of an organization on the part of the major league ball
players during the closing days of the season of 1912 was looked upon
with some misgivings by those who remember only too well what happened
when a prior organization of ball players was formed.

In the present instance those foremost in perfecting the organization
have also been foremost in asserting that the players' organization's
principal aim is to co-operate with the club owners.

If this object is followed with fidelity and to its ultimate conclusion
there is no necessity to fear any grave disturbances, but there is a
dread--that dread which is the fear of the child that has had its hands
burned by the flame, that a selfish coterie of players might obtain
control of the organization, set up a policy of unscrupulous defiance
and destructive opposition and <DW44> for a moment the higher
development of the game.

There is no organization, either of unscrupulous Base Ball players or
unscrupulous club owners, which will ever find it possible to destroy
organized Base Ball. The results that organized Base Ball have brought
about will never be annihilated although grave injury could be
temporarily wrought by a force defiant to tie unusual demands made by
the sport to perpetuate itself successfully.

It is simply out of the question to control Base Ball as one would
control the affairs of a department store. Base Ball has its commercial
side, but its commercial side cannot maintain it with success. There
must be a predominant factor based upon the encouragement that brings
forth admiration for a high class sport. This factor can only be
fostered by the ability to maintain not one, but a group of high class
teams.

Any ball player imbued with the idea that the "stars" should be grouped
together in the city best able to pay the highest salaries simply is an
enemy to his career and to those of his fellow players.

Without some handicap to assist in the equalizing of the strength of
Base Ball nines of the professional leagues there will be no prosperity
for the leagues or the clubs individually. No better evidence may be
cited to prove this than the fact, repeatedly demonstrated that in the
smaller leagues Base Ball enthusiasts in the city best able to pay the
largest salaries frequently withdraw their support of the team because
"it wins all the time."

To-day Base Ball, in its professional atmosphere, is nearer an ideal
sport, a better managed sport, and a more fairly and equitably adjusted
sport, than it ever has been, which is manifest proof of its superior
evolution. Had results been otherwise it would have retrograded and
possibly passed out of existence. Carefully comparing its management
with that of all other sports in history the Editor of the GUIDE
believes that it is the best managed sport in the world.

It is true that improvements can be made. It is evident that there are
still commercialized owners not over capitalized with a spirit of sport.
It is undeniable that there are ball players not imbued with a high tone
of the obligations, which they owe to their employers and to the public,
but it is as certain as the existence of the game that progress has been
made, and that it has not ceased to move forward.

For that reason players and owners must be guided by a sense of lofty
ideals and not be led astray by foolish outbursts over trivial
differences of opinion, easily to be adjusted by the exercise of a
little common sense.

       *       *       *       *       *

BASE BALL PLAYED IN SWEDEN

In connection with the subject of "Base Ball For All the World," for
which the GUIDE expounds and spreads the gospel, the Editor would submit
a very interesting letter received by him from Sweden. it reads as
follows:

Westeras, Sweden, Sept. 14, 1912.

To the Editor of the GUIDE:

We hereby have the pleasure of sending you two copies of the rules,
translated and issued by the Westeras Base Ball Club, into Swedish from
the Spalding Base Ball Guide.

The work of getting the book out has been somewhat slow on account of
that the work of translating, proofreading, etc., all had to be done on
our spare time, but it is done now, and I think we have succeeded pretty
well, everything considered. The books will be distributed by a
well-known book firm, Bjork & Boyeson, Stockholm, and will soon be
available in all the bookstores in Sweden.

We got some advance copies out just in time for the Olympic Games, and I
had the pleasure of presenting some copies to Commissioner Col.
Thompson, Manager Halpin and others of the American Olympic Committee.

As you know, so did we have a game of Base Ball at Stockholm with one of
the Finland teams, and as it may be of some interest to you to know the
preliminaries to the game, I am writing to relate how it happened.

In trying to arrange for some amusements in the evenings at the Stadium,
the Olympic Committee wrote us if we would be willing to take part in a
game of Base Ball at Stadium some evening during the Stadium week. As
our club this year was in poor condition, on account of some of our best
players being out on military duties, we hesitated at first, but then
decided to risk it, knowing very well that whoever we would play
against, they would not rub in to us too hard. We pointed out to the
Olympic Committee that it would not be very hard to get a team of Base
Ball players picked out from the American athletes taking part in the
contests, but as they would not be prepared for Base Ball, suits and
other needed articles had to be provided for. We were then told to get
necessary things ordered, and so we did. We ordered suits from a tailor
in this town, after a pattern that I got from Spalding's this spring.
The suits were of gray flannel, with blue trimmings for our team and red
trimmings for the American. I also ordered bats and gloves, and with the
things our club already had, we were very well equipped.

The Olympic Committee, Stockholm, then received a letter from the
Olympic Committee, New York, saying that if a game of Base Ball could be
arranged for during the Olympian Games, they would bring two teams along
on the Finland. The Olympic Committee cabled to come along, and sent us
a copy of Mr. Sullivan's letter. I knew, of course, that if the game
could be played by two American teams, it would be a much better game
than if our team took part, and told the Olympic Committee, and wanted
to withdraw, but as they did not know for sure how it would be, told us
to go ahead with the arrangements just the same, and so we did, and by
the time the Finland arrived, everything had been arranged for.

The Olympic Committee has selected the evening, 7 P.M., of the 10th of
July, for the game, and thought that this would be suitable to the
Americans, but as some of the players had to take part in the contests,
Mr. Halpin would not risk them then, so it was finally decided that a
game should be played the 15th, the Americans to play six innings
between themselves and then six innings against us.

Well, we had a game at the training grounds. We played six innings, and
Mr. Halpin was kind enough to let us have a pitcher and catcher from his
men. The score was 9 to 3, and it could just as well been 9 to 0,
perhaps. Well, at any rate, it was the first Base Ball game, as far as I
know, that ever took place in Europe between an American team and a
European team, with England possibly excepted.

Mr. Halpin said that the Americans were going to play a game the next
morning between themselves, but that game did not come off. There was
probably no time for it, as the Finland left Stockholm the same day.
Very likely the American boys were somewhat disappointed in not being
able to play between themselves, as anticipated, and perhaps I should
not have pushed our game ahead, but as long as there was a Base Ball
team in Sweden, it would have been strange if it had not played, and it
gave our boys a chance to see how the game should be played, and they
certainly did take it in. Had the game been played as it was intended
and advertised, on the 10th in the Stadium, there would very likely have
been a bigger crowd present, and the game would also have been more
talked about in the papers, but then we will have to be satisfied as it
is.

Our club has been practicing all summer, twice a week, and on the 24th
of August we gave an exhibition game here at Westeras, between two teams
from our club, the suits made for the Olympic Games coming in very
handy. I send you herewith a clipping from a local paper describing the
game, and also a picture of the two teams with myself and the umpire
included.

At our game here we distributed the "Description of Base Ball," written
by you and translated into Swedish, and it came of good use. Next year
we intend to have our teams appear in the nearby cities around here, so
as to give people a chance to see the game, and it will not be long
before they will start it in Stockholm, so I think the game is bound to
be popular here also,

Mr. George Wright, of Boston, was the umpire at the Stockholm games, and
as he was very kind to us, we would like to send him the picture of the
club, and hope that you will forward us his address.

I am, for Westeras Base Ball Club,

Yours truly,

EDWIN JOHNSON,

Electrical Engineer.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NEW NATIONAL AGREEMENT

Unlimited satisfaction must be had by all who are connected with Base
Ball over the greatly improved conditions by which the season of 1913 is
begun under the new National Agreement. While it perhaps might be
exaggerated boastfulness to affirm that Base Ball, as a professionally
organized sport, has attained perfection, it is not out of reason--
indeed, quite within reason--to observe that Base Ball never had such a
well balanced and perfect organization as that by which it is regulated
at the present time.

The principal fact of congratulation lies in the safeguards and
provisions which have been thrown around the players of the minor
leagues and in the equitable and just measures which have been agreed
upon to provide for their future.

As a general rule it may be taken for granted that the players of the
major leagues can take care of themselves. That is to say, their
positions, if they are expert in their calling, and conscientious in
their deportment, really take care of them.

No club owner, unless he is maliciously or foolishly inclined, will
jeopardize the interests of his team by acting in a wilfully unjust
manner toward a player who is cheerfully and uprightly offering his
services. We may hear of occasional exceptions to this condition of
things, but if these occasional exceptions chance to arise, it is
inevitably certain that the owner in the long run will suffer to a
greater degree than the player with whom he deals unfairly.

It is the history of Base Ball that more inequitable treatment has
arisen by fifty per cent in the minor leagues than has had its origin in
the major leagues. The reason for this existed almost wholly in the
inability of Base Ball as a whole to bring the minor league owners to a
realization of the injury that they might be doing and to extend such
punishment and insist upon such regulation as were necessary to change
this undesirable condition.

By the organization of the National Association of Base Ball clubs the
minor leagues, for the first time in their history, placed themselves in
a position where they could demand proper enforcement of regulations for
the government of the sport, and by their alliance with the major league
clubs, under the articles of the National Agreement, a general working
basis was effected whereby compliance with rules could be insisted upon.

The result of this admirable condition of affairs is that wisdom and
equity now rule where there once existed chaos and at times something
akin to anarchy in sport.

At no time in the history of the game, which is so dear to the hearts of
the American people, has the general legislative and executive body been
so well equipped by the adoption of pertinent and virile laws to insist
upon justice to all concerned as at the present moment.

The new National Agreement is an improvement upon the old and the old
was a long, long step in advance of anything which had preceded it. The
mere fact that club owners and leagues were so willing to adopt a system
better than its predecessor wholly confutes the absurd assertions of the
radical element that there is no consideration shown for the player.

To the contrary, every consideration has been shown to the player, but
the latter must not confound with the consideration shown to him the
idea that his interests are the only interests at stake in Base Ball.
The man who is willing to furnish the sinews of war has as good standing
in court as the player who furnishes the base hits and the phenomenal
catches.

So perfect is the system which is being attempted to be set in force by
the new National Agreement that the young man who now essays to play
professional Base Ball may be assured of steady advancement in this
profession and a generally improving condition if he will be as honest
by his employer as he expects his employer to be honest by him.

The graduated system of assisting players, step by step, from the least
important leagues to the most important is the most perfect plan of its
kind that has ever been devised. There may be flaws in it, but if there
are they will be remedied, and if modifications are necessary to make it
more perfect there is no doubt that such modifications will be agreed
upon.

As proof of what the new National Agreement may do, although it has
barely had time to be considered, the editor of the GUIDE would submit
the following for consideration:

Ever since the National Agreement was organized the members have always
striven to aid the players in their efforts to gain the top rank in the
great national game. They have had a hard proposition in handling all of
the cases that have been brought to their attention, but their decisions
in all cases were absolutely fair and impartial. Then the matter of the
new agreement occasioned many hours of laborious work on the part of the
members of the Commission, and when the instrument was finally announced
it meant that all of the parties to such an agreement were satisfied and
that there could be no improvement. There was one detail that covered a
wide field, and that was in the matter of players; drafted by the two
big leagues and later sent back to the minors. Under the old National
Agreement it was possible to pick up a player by means of the annual
draft from one of the Class C leagues and just before the opening of the
season send him back to the club from whence he came without ever having
given him a chance to land with a club in some higher organization.

Realizing that such players were not given a chance to advance in the
Base Ball profession, this matter was thoroughly thrashed out and the
new ruling under which all of the National Agreement clubs operate was
adopted. Now it is possible for a player in any of the smaller leagues
to be drafted by a major league club, and when the latter party does not
care to retain possession of such a player he is first offered to the
Class AA clubs. All of these clubs must waive on him before he can be
dropped farther down in the list, and if such should be the case he
would then be offered to the Class A clubs. In that way the player,
although he is not fast enough to remain in the two major leagues, is
always given a chance to advance, for if any of the clubs in those
classes higher than that from which he came had grabbed him he was bound
to receive an increase in salary. That meant that he had his chance to
advance, and that was the sole purpose of the National Agreement in
drafting such a rule.

During the past drafting season there were sixty-nine players drafted by
the two major league clubs, and of that number twenty-seven have already
been sent back to the minor leagues. The Class AA and A clubs claimed
all of these twenty-seven, and it is more than likely that there will
also be many more who will be given trials by the big league clubs
during the spring training season and who may later be turned back to
the minors. Of the twenty-seven players thus far sent back seventeen of
them advanced in their profession, a tribute to the sagacity, wisdom and
impartiality of the members of the National Commission. The decision, as
announced by Chairman Herrmann of the National Commission pertaining to
this return of drafted players, is as follows:

------------|-----------------|----------|-----------|--------------
   Clubs.   |   League.       | Players. |  Drafted  |  Drafted By
            |                 |          |   From    |
------------|-----------------|----------|-----------|--------------
Louisville  |American Asso.   |Stansbury |Louisville |St. Louis N.L.
Chattanooga |Southern Asso.   |Balenti   |Chattanooga|St. Louis A.L.
Sacramento  |Pacific Coast    |Berghammer|Lincoln    |Chicago N.L.
Sacramento  |Pacific Coast    |Orr       |Sacramento |Phila. A.L.
Sacramento  |Pacific Coast    |[1]Young  |Harrisburg |New York A.L.
Sacramento  |Pacific Coast    |Drohan    |Kewanee    |Washington.
Indianapolis|American Asso.   |Berghammer|Lincoln    |Chicago N.L.
Indianapolis|American Asso.   |Cathers   |Scranton   |St. Louis N.L.
Indianapolis|American Asso.   |Metz      |San Antonio|Boston N.L.
Indianapolis|American Asso.   |Kernan    |Oshkosh    |Chicago A.L.
New Orleans |Southern Asso.   |Bates     |Newp't News|Cleveland.
New Orleans |Southern Asso.   |Wilson    |Knoxville  |Cleveland.
New Orleans |Southern Asso.   |Betts     |San Antonio|Cleveland.
New Orleans |Southern Asso.   |Drohan    |Kewanee    |Washington.
New Orleans |Southern Asso.   |Williams  |Newark, O  |Washington.
Portland    |Pacific Coast    |Williams  |Newark, O  |Washington.
Portland    |Pacific Coast    |Drohan    |Kewanee    |Washington.
Portland    |Pacific Coast    |Bates.    |Newp't News|Cleveland.
Portland    |Pacific Coast    |Grubb     |Morristown |Cleveland.
Portland    |Pacific Coast    |Wilson    |Knoxville  |Cleveland.
Portland    |Pacific Coast    |Betts     |San Antonio|Cleveland.
Milwaukee   |American Asso.   |Beall     |Denver     |Cleveland.
St. Paul    |American Asso.   |Berghammer|Lincoln    |Chicago N.L.
St. Paul    |American Asso.   |Miller    |Harrisburg |Pittsburgh.
St. Paul    |American Asso.   |Booe      |Ft. Wayne  |Pittsburgh.
St. Paul    |American Asso.   |House     |Kewanee    |Detroit.
St. Paul    |American Asso.   |Drohan    |Kewanee    |Washington.
St. Paul    |American Asso.   |Beall     |Denver     |Cleveland.
St. Paul    |American Asso.   |Balenti   |Chattanooga|St. Louis A.L.
St. Paul    |American Asso.   |Agnew     |Vernon     |St. Louis A.L.
Omaha       |Western League   |Wilson    |Knoxville  |Cleveland.
Omaha       |Western League   |Williams  |Newark, O  |Washington.
Omaha       |Western League   |Betts     |San Antonio|Cleveland.
Omaha       |Western League   |Drohan    |Kewanee    |Washington.
Buffalo     |Internat'l League|Schang    |Buffalo    |Phila. A.L.
Buffalo     |Internat'l League|Dolan     |Rochester  |Phila. A.L.
Buffalo     |Internat'l League|Cottrell  |Scranton   |Chicago N.L.
Buffalo     |Internat'l League|Clymer    |Minneapolis|Chicago N.L.
Columbus    |American Asso.   |Drohan    |Kewanee    |Washington.
Rochester   |Internat'l League|Dolan     |Rochester  |Phila. A.L.
Montreal    |Internat'l League|Connelly  |Montreal   |Washington.
Toledo      |American Asso.   |Hernden   |[2]        |St. Louis.
Toledo      |American Asso.   |Stevenson |Oshkosh    |St. Louis N.L.
Toledo      |American Asso.   |Bates     |Newp't News|Cleveland.
Toledo      |American Asso.   |Wilson    |Knoxville  |Cleveland.
Denver      |Western League   |Heckinger |Racine     |Chicago N.L.
Denver      |Western League   |Drohan    |Kewanee    |Washington.
---------------------------------------------------------------------

1: Subject to investigation as to whether New York American League Club
has title.

2: Subject to investigation as to whether St. Louis American or National
League Club has title to this player and how secured.

       *       *       *       *       *

A WORLD'S SERIES PROBLEM

Much discussion arose after the finish of the last world's series as to
whether the adjustment of dates had worked satisfactorily. The
contention was that playing off a tie game on the ground where the game
had been scheduled might work some inconvenience to "fans" and result in
an inequitable allotment of dates, simply to conform to custom.

It was asserted that the importance of the series demanded that it be a
home-and-home affair, dates to alternate regularly, regardless of all
ties or drawn games. To obtain opinion that is sound and practical the
Editor of the GUIDE sent forth the following letter:


NEW YORK, January 31, 1913.

During the recent world's series it so happened that a tie was played in
one of the cities, which compelled both teams to remain in that city for
another date. Before the series was over this arrangement resulted in
one club having five games on its home grounds and the other club having
but three games on its home grounds.

It has seemed to some that it is unjust. It is also contended that it is
unfair to the patrons of the game to schedule a contest and then not
play in the city specified after some had traveled many miles to see it.

Will you please give the GUIDE your opinion as to whether a change would
be advisable?

Very truly yours,

JOHN B. FOSTER,
_Editor Spalding's Official Base Ball Guide._


Answers were received to the request for a "symposium of opinion" as
follows:


"So far as having any effect on the chances of the two teams is
concerned, I don't think having to play more games on one ground than on
the other makes any material difference. Where cities are sufficiently
near each other for games to be alternated daily, it would perhaps be
fairer to spectators to do so, irrespective of ties; yet it seems to me
that a tie on one grounds should be played off the next day in the same
city."

W.B. HANNA,
_New York Sun._

       *       *       *       *       *

"In my opinion the arrangement on tie games in the post-season contests
is a poor one. I saw the result of it in the series between the Cubs and
White Sox last fall. Two tie games were played and the confusion and
inconvenience it caused the fans was deplorable. It is unjust to the
followers who support Base Ball. It is also unjust, in a small way, to
the club which has to play two or more games on its opponent's field.
Players when away from their home grounds, in a fall series, are more or
less under a nervous strain. If there was confusion, inconvenience and
difficulty in a local series as a result of a tie game, the folly of the
arrangement must appear more absurd when towns like New York and Boston
are involved. Dates should alternate, tie or not tie."

OSCAR C. REICHOW,
_Chicago Daily News._

       *       *       *       *       *

"We are in receipt of your favor of the 31st nlt., and wish to thank you
for the opportunity presented.

"It is our opinion that a tie game was played and it should be
considered as a game. Either side had an opportunity to win and any
advantage that the home club might have had was lost when it failed to
break the tie.

"It is, therefore, our belief that this game should have been played in
the other city.

"As to it being unfair to the patrons who had traveled so far to see the
scheduled contest, there is no doubt that they were afforded a
sufficient amount of amusement and excitement for their trouble, in
witnessing a closely played contest."

J. G. T. SPINK,
_St. Louis Sporting News._

       *       *       *       *       *

"It seems to me that the game should be alternated between the
contending cities regardless of ties. The tie game gave Boston five
games on the home grounds, while the Giants had only three. Besides,
many persons, who traveled to see the games in New York, were
inconvenienced."

JOHN E. WHEELER,
_New York Herald._

       *       *       *       *       *

"I think that the scheduled programme should be played through
irrespective of the results of the respective games, and any extra
playing or playing-off should be done after the originally set schedule
is completed."

H. P. BORCHELL,
_Sports Editor New York Times._

       *       *       *       *       *

"I believe it would be inadvisable to change the method that now
prevails. While the situation which arose last season did seem unjust to
the New York club, I think the very fact that Boston had five games on
its home grounds, and the Giants but three on their own diamond, was an
answer to those ill-advised skeptics who are always ready to raise the
cry of hippodroming.

"That same situation is not likely to again arise for a long time, and I
believe the rule as it stands is a guarantee to the public of the strict
honesty of the world's championship contests."

DAMON RUNYON,
_The New York American._

       *       *       *       *       *

"A change in the rules regarding world series games would he fairer to
the patrons of the sport. Here in Chicago this past fall two ties were
played and, as a result, there was considerable confusion over the
ticket arrangements. How much more is the case when two cities are
involved? A condition which allows five games to be played in one city
and only three in another is scarcely fair to the two teams. By making a
schedule calling for alternate games in each city, irrespective of ties,
everybody--fans and players--would get an even break."

MALCOLM MACLEAN,
_Base Ball Editor Chicago Evening Post._

       *       *       *       *       *

"I think it might be fairer to both world's series contenders to play a
regular schedule, regardless of the fact that any tie games may arise in
the series. Under the old system of playing the tie off in the city
where the tie game is played, it brings about a great deal of confusion.
Many fans make arrangements to see a game on a certain day and are
greatly disappointed when the game is played in a different city. Of
course, the old rule of playing the play-off game on the same grounds as
the tie game, is fair to both contesting clubs, as it is merely a matter
of chance where a tie game is played."

FRED. G. LIEB,
_New York Press._

       *       *       *       *       *

"The rules regarding the manner of scheduling games for the world's
series should not be changed. There are times when they apparently work
a hardship to one team or the followers of one club, but, after all,
they help to throw the necessary safeguards around the contests. As for
the argument for not playing off a tie game on the same grounds, thus
disarranging the dates and inconveniencing the fans, patrons of the
world's series games are accustomed to this, since bad weather
frequently cuts into the event and causes postponements.

"In a way it does not appear fair that one club should have the
privilege of playing five games at home to three games at home for its
opponents. The rule of playing off a tie game on the same grounds is a
fixture in Base Ball. As to the other game, this was a question of the
luck of the toss of the coin.

"The fans have to trust to luck as to the number of games they will see
in a world's series, this depending upon the number of games played and
possibly upon the toss for a seventh battle. In 1905 the fans of
Philadelphia saw only two games in a world's series with New York. In
1910 only two games were played here in the series with Chicago.

"Any time a club has three games on its own grounds in a series where
four victories decide the issue either it or its followers have not much
chance to raise an objection."

WILLIAM G. WEART,
_The Evening Telegraph._

       *       *       *       *       *

"It was, of course, to the disadvantage of the Giants to be obliged to
play five of the eight games in the post-season series last fall on the
grounds of their opponents, but this came as a result of one tie game on
the Boston grounds and being outlucked on the toss to determine where
the deciding game should be played. This tie game unquestionably caused
much inconvenience to patrons because of the change in the schedule made
necessary because of it.

"It is not clear to me, however, just now these things can be remedied
without disturbing the balance of an even break for both teams more
violently than was the case last fall.

"I do not believe there will be another series just like the one of
1912, and so, in my opinion, an immediate change in the conditions
governing these series would not be advisable. It is not clear to me
just what changes could be made. One club or the other is bound to have
the advantage of an extra game on its own grounds, providing seven games
are necessary. The championship in nine out of ten contests will be
decided in seven games or less.

"Then, as to having the games played according to an arbitrarily fixed
schedule, so as not to inconvenience patrons--that would be out of the
question, being open to the objection that it would then be possible to
have every game that figures in the result of the series played on the
home grounds of one of the contestants. For instance, tie games or
unfavorable weather which would prevent a game being played in one city,
would throw all the games to the other city where there might be no tie
games nor unfavorable weather. That would mean four straight, if it so
happened that the home team won the games, and the loser would never
have gotten action on its own grounds. That would be considerably worse
than five to three.

"So it looks to me as if the patrons would have to take their chances in
the future as they have in the past."

JAMES C. O'LEABT,
_Boston Globe._

       *       *       *       *       *

"It seems to me that it would be better to alternate (in case of a tie),
as a team able to tie its opponent on a hostile field would be entitled
to consideration for this performance. I am very certain, however, that
the players of both clubs in the recent world's series were satisfied
with an arrangement which minimized the amount of traveling they were
called upon to do.

"Persons who had seen a five-inning tie game terminated by rain would
hardly be satisfied. It seems to me that the rule as to alternating ball
parks should be applied strictly, but only in case the tie game involved
went nine innings or more."

FRANCIS EATON,
_Sports Editor Boston Journal._

       *       *       *       *       *

"To me the feasible thing to do appears to be to insert a clause in
stipulations covering all short series of a special character, such as
intercity, inter-league and world's series, making it compulsory for the
teams to alternate between the cities or grounds of the competing
clubs."

PURVES T. KNOX,
_New York Evening Telegram._

       *       *       *       *       *

"Why wouldn't it be a good scheme to toss up for the deciding game only
in cases where an equal number of games had been played in each city,
and, in cases where one city had seen more games than the other, to play
the deciding game in the city which had seen the fewer games?

"I do not believe it advisable to change the commission's rule regarding
postponed games. The rule now provides that, in case of a postponement,
the clubs shall remain in the city in which the game was scheduled until
it is possible to play. If this rule were changed and there happened to
be a week of bad weather, as in 1911, the teams and many fans might be
forced to travel back and forth from one town to another for a week
without participating in or seeing a single game; and it might happen
some time that the jump would be between St. Louis and Boston."

R. W. LARDNER,
_Chicago Examiner._

       *       *       *       *       *

"A change in the rule governing the playing-off of tie games in the
world's series should be made. The teams ought to appear in each city on
the dates named in the schedule drawn up before the series starts,
unless the weather interferes."

WILLIAM H. WRIGHT,
_New York Tribune._

       *       *       *       *       *

"Drawn games are as unavoidable as rainy days in world's series, but not
as frequent. They operate the same in their effect on the contest for
the world's pennant and in causing confusion among the patrons by
disarranging the schedule. It would be manifestly unjust if, after a
rain postponement, the competing teams did not remain and play the game
off before playing elsewhere. That might result in playing all of the
games in one city. Since drawn games are treated like postponed games in
the regular season, and are of infrequent occurrence in world's series,
any other arrangement than the present does not seem advisable. The
patrons, who should be considered always, would be among the first to
object if each team did not have an equal show to win. In the last
series only four games that counted were played in Boston and three in
New York and if New York had won the toss for the deciding game the
situation would have been reversed. It would be manifestly fairer to
play the seventh game if necessary in some neutral city."

L. E. SANBORN,
_Chicago Tribune._




NEW FACES IN THE OLD LEAGUE

BY JOHN B. FOSTER.


Not for some time has there been such a turning over of the leaves of
history in the National League as during 1912-13, and because of this
there are many new faces peering out of the album. There have also been
changes in the minor circuits and one prominent change in the American
League.

The death of John T. Brush removed from Base Ball a dean of the National
League. Wise in the lore of the game, a man more of the future than of
the present, as he always foresaw that which some of his contemporaries
were less alert in perceiving, it meant no easy task to be his
successor.

Prior to the death of Mr. Brush there was a great deal of curious and
some idle speculation as to his ultimate successor in case of decease,
or, in the event of his retirement because of bodily weariness. One or
two went so far as to say that upon his death Andrew Freedman would
return to prominence in Base Ball, because he was the real owner of the
New York club. Once and for all the writer would like to put the
personal stamp of absolute denial on the repeated statements made by
certain individuals in New York and Chicago that Andrew Freedman
retained the control of the New York club after John T. Brush was
reported to have purchased it.

Mr. Freedman retained nothing of the kind. Not that Mr. Brush objected
to him as a partner, but when Mr. Brush purchased the stock he purchased
the control outright, although he did request Mr. Freedman to hold a few
shares and not give up his personal interest in Base Ball, for Mr.
Freedman had a great liking for the game in spite of his stormy career.
The assertions that Mr. Freedman was the real owner and Mr. Brush the
nominal owner were made with malicious intent, of which the writer has
proof, and through a desire, if possible, to combat the popularity and
the success of the Giants.

This digression has been made to call attention to the fact that while
rumor was plentiful as to the future control of the Giants Mr. Brush was
carefully "grooming" a young man--his son-in-law, Mr. H. Hempstead--to
take his place.

To a few it was known that Mr. Hempstead was acquiring such experience
and information as would be necessary to assume the control of an
undertaking which has grown so big as the organization of the Giants in
New York. The business details of the club have quadrupled and the cares
and anxieties of the man at the head have increased in proportion.

The Giants, as successful as they have been under the control of John T.
Brush and John J. McGraw, the men who have been the executive heads in
both the business and the playing departments of the game, are as
susceptible to reverses as if they were the lowliest club in the
organization. It is only by constant and severe application that the
club's affairs may be kept at the best pitch.

Mr. Hempstead brings to Base Ball the advantage of youth, a keen
business sagacity developed beyond his years, coolness, a disposition
that is sunny and not easily ruffled, and a reputation for unvarying
fairness and the highest type of business and sport ideals. Quite a list
of qualities, but they are there.

If characteristics of that description fail to maintain the high
standard of the New York club, then it will be due to the fact that our
standards of business deportment have turned topsy-turvy.

William H. Locke is the new president and part owner of the Philadelphia
club. He and Mr. Hempstead are the "junior" presidents of the league.
There is no necessity for the Editor of the GUIDE to enter into any long
and fulsome praise as to William H. Locke.

His career speaks for itself and he speaks for himself. A young man of
the finest attributes, he has brought nothing to the mill of Base Ball
to grind except that which was the finest and the cleanest grain.

The writer has known Mr. Locke almost, it seems, from boyhood and
esteems him for his worth, not only as one who has administered the
affairs of Base Ball with skill and intelligence, but as one who wrote
of Base Ball with understanding and excellent taste, for it must not be
forgotten that Mr. Locke is a newspaper graduate into the ranks of the
great sport the affairs of which fill a little corner of the hearts of
so many of America's citizens.

Perhaps no young man ever left a newspaper office to become a Base Ball
president with more good wishes behind him than William H. Locke. He
served his apprenticeship as secretary of the Pittsburgh club and he
served it well. He is a high class, delightful young man, every inch of
him, and Philadelphia will soon become as proud of him as Pittsburgh is
now.

Still another newspaper writer has been claimed from the desk by the
National League. He is Herman Nickerson, formerly sporting editor of the
Boston Journal, who is now the secretary of the Boston National League
club.

"Nick" is known from one end of the National League circuit to the other
as one of the most solid and substantial of the writing force, and also
as one of the most demure and modest. In addition to his great fund of
information on Base Ball topics he is an author, and "The Sword of
Bussy," a book which was published during the winter, is even more
clever than some of the author's best Base Ball yarns, and that is
saying a great deal in behalf of a man wedded to Base Ball.

Another change in the National League was the selection of Frank M.
Stevens of New York, as one of the Board of Directors of the New York
National League club.

This brings into Base Ball one of New York's cleverest and brightest
young business men, one who is forging so rapidly to the front in
business circles in the big metropolis that many an older head goes to
him for advice. Mr. Stevens knows a lot about Base Ball, which is of
even greater importance in the game, and is not afraid to swing any
venture that will put with fairness a championship team into the big
city. He is a son of Harry M. Stevens, whom everybody knows, rich and
poor alike.

In the American League the death of Mr. Thomas D. Noyes, president of
the Washington club, a young man who left behind naught but friends,
left a vacancy in the organization which was filled by the selection of
Mr. Benjamin S. Minor.

The new president of the club has had practical experience in Base Ball
and perhaps plenty of it, as almost everybody has had in Washington, but
he is a wideawake, progressive and ambitious man, who is of just the
type to keep Base Ball going, now that it has struck its gait in the
national capital, and the future of the sport looks all the brighter for
his connection with it.




THE UMPIRES


The umpires are always with us, and the umpire problem has been a
vexation of Base Ball since the beginning of Base Ball time, yet neither
the umpires, the public, the club owners nor the league officials need
be discouraged, for it was fully proved in 1912 that umpiring, as a fine
art, has advanced a step nearer perfection. We may well doubt that
perfection in its every quality shall ever be achieved, but we may all
feel sanguine that it is possible to realize better results.

It is true that some men make better umpires than others, exactly as
some men make better ball players than others, but it is also true that
if the men who find it the hardest task to become the most expert
umpires would be given a little more encouragement they might be a
little more successful.

To the staff of umpires of the National League and the American League
it is but fair to render a compliment for their work of last season.
Some of them made mistakes but the general average of work on the part
of the judges of play was excellent.

There was less tendency on the part of the umpires to render their
decisions without being in a position to follow the play correctly. They
were occasionally willing to concede that they might have been wrong
when an analysis of the play was brought to their attention and they
were firm in asserting discipline without becoming overheated on their
own account.

To the mind of the Editor of the GUIDE, in the general light of
observation, the most serious blunders committed by the umpires in 1912
were in making decisions before the play took place. This did happen and
more than once. To illustrate, by an example, the Editor of the GUIDE
had exhibited to him some photographs taken during 1912 in which a
player had been "waved out" before he actually had arrived at the base.
Granting the desire of the umpires to be alert and ready to render
decisions promptly, it is equally apparent that giving decisions in
advance of the completion of plays is likely to imbue the spectators
with an idea that the umpire is either partisan or incompetent.

Young umpires, in their haste to "make good" in the major leagues, are
apt to overdo rather than fail to be on time.

While it is not a pleasant subject to discuss, it is a fact that some
umpires had been accustomed to use the very language to players on the
field that they were presumed in their official capacity as umpires to
correct. The writer knows of instances where this took place.

It has ever been the policy of the GUIDE to stand for clean and high
class Base Ball. Twenty per cent. more women attend ball games now than
did ten years ago. Eighty per cent. more women spectators are likely to
attend five years from now. To encourage their attendance every effort
should be made to eliminate all disgraceful conversation on the field.
Wherever it may be ascertained that an umpire has used profane or vulgar
language on the field the editor of the GUIDE believes that he should be
fined and punished as sternly as an offending player.

It is contended that the position of the umpire has been rendered more
arduous by reason of the world's series. The argument is advanced that
the players are more intractable, by reason of their eagerness to play
in the post-season games. That argument would be stronger were it not
for the fact that some of the worst disturbances emanate from the
players of the clubs that have no chance to play in the world's series.

As a general rule two good reasons may be advanced for disputes on the
part of players.

First: Desire to "cover up" the player's own blunder.

Second: General "cussedness."

There are players who make honest objection on the excitement of the
moment from sheer desire to win, but their lapses from Base Ball
etiquette are so few and far between that their transgressions usually
may be forgiven with some grace.

The Editor of the GUIDE would offer one suggestion to league presidents
and umpires; it is this: whenever two possible plays occur in
conjunction, instruct the chief umpire always to turn to the spectators
and inform them which player is out.

For instance, if a player is at bat and another on the bases and two are
out and an attempt is made to steal second, as the chief umpire calls
the batter out on strikes the public should be clearly informed that the
batter is out. If the play looks close at second base the crowd
frequently believes the runner has been called out and resents it
accordingly. In line with the same play, when the runner is called out
and the fourth ball at the same time is called on the batter, the chief
umpire should turn to the spectators and to the press box and make it
clearly understood that the batter has been given a base on balls. It
saves a great deal of annoyance and fault finding.

By the way, although it has been said elsewhere, the Editor of the GUIDE
would beg the indulgence of repetition by stating that the work of the
umpires during the world's series of 1912 was one of the finest
exhibitions of its kind ever seen on a ball field, and somehow it seemed
as if the players, would they but deport themselves during all series as
they did during the world's series might find that there are more good
umpires in the world after all than bad ones.




BASE BALL WRITERS OF THE SOUTH


While the Base Ball writers of the cities which comprise the Southern
Association have no organized membership similar to the Base Ball
Writers' Association of the major leagues and the organizations which
are best known as the class AA leagues, they are a clever, hard-working
group of young men, who have labored in season and out of season, not
only to build up Base Ball but to build it up on the right lines.

Experience of more than a quarter of a century has most abundantly
proved that the standard of Base Ball has steadily been elevated. It
needs no compilation of fact nor any dogmatic assertion on the part of
the Editor of the GUIDE to attest that fact. It is a present condition
which speaks for itself. The general tone of the players is far higher
than it was and there has come into evidence a marked improvement in the
spirit of the men who own Base Ball clubs. In the earlier history of the
sport there was a tendency to win by any means that did not actually
cross the line of dishonesty. Later there came a season when the
commercial end of the game tended to encroach upon the limits of the
pastime. This has been repressed in the last two seasons and to-day the
morale of Base Ball is of a higher type than it ever has been in the
history of the pastime.

It is a high class sport in the main, managed by high class, men for
high class purposes.

Going through the early stages of building up a successful league,
which, by the way, is the severest of all tasks, and even now at
intervals confronted with changes in the league circuit, the Southern
writers have steadily been sowing the seeds of high class Base Ball and
they have seen results prior to this date, for Base Ball has become
popular and has been handsomely and loyally supported in sections in
which fifteen years ago it would have been considered impossible to
achieve such results.

It is true that business reverses and adverse conditions have had at
times their effect upon Base Ball in the South and possibly may produce
similar results again, but the admirable offset to this fact is that
none of these conditions at any time has daunted the spirit and the
resolution of the young men who have zealously been preaching the cause
of clean and healthy Base Ball.

Very likely to their zeal, their courage, their tact and their ability
it is possible to ascribe the increase in good ball players which is
making itself manifest in the South. More high class and attractive
athletes are coming from the Southern states in these days than ever was
the case before. Base Ball is very glad to have them. When a
representative major league team is made up of players who represent
every section in the Union, engaged for their skill, it seems as if Base
Ball has become nearer an ideal and a national pastime than ever before
in the history of the sport.

To the Southern writers the members of the Base Ball Writers Association
and those of the organizations patterned on like lines send greeting.




BASE BALL WORTH WHILE?


One of the foremost divines in the East who has a deep concern in Base
Ball and Base Ball players is Rev. Dr. Reisner, pastor of the Grace
Methodist Episcopal Church, of New York City. Throughout the season he
attends the games and is greatly interested in the work of the players.
He knows Base Ball well, and in addition to that he knows the
environment of Base Ball players and their character and endeavor as
well as any person in the United States.

It is Dr. Reisner's custom each year to preach a sermon to the Base Ball
players and their friends in his church in New York, and the building
always is filled to listen to his discourse. In view of the interest
which he takes in the national game and because of his excellent
knowledge as to the general details of the sport, the Editor of the
GUIDE asked him to say a few words to the ball players of the United
States through the medium of this publication, and he has graciously
consented to do so in the following pithy and straightforward talks:

BY THE REV. CHRISTIAN F. REISNER, NEW YORK.

The Bible is the Spalding book of rules for the game of life. James B.
Sullivan, beloved by all athletes, gave me these rules for athletes:
"Don't drink, use tobacco or dissipate. Go to bed early and eat
wholesome food!" The boozer gets out of the game as certainly as the
bonehead.

I have interviewed scores of the most noted players. Every one had a
religious training. Many are church members. All avoid old-time
drinking, as our fathers did smallpox.

Mathewson belongs to the high type now being generally duplicated. He is
a modern masculine Christian. Base Ball demands brains as well as brawn.
Minds muddled by licentiousness and liquor are too "leady" for leaders.
Hotheadedness topples capable players.

I am proud to style scores of Base Ball players, I know, as gentlemen.
They are optimists. Defect is unrecognized. Team work makes them
brotherly. Bickerings break a Baseballist. Every member of the team
gives himself wholly to the game. Jeers are as harmless as cheers.

Every minute he does his best. He sleeps only at night. To do these
things the player must follow Bible rules. If he keeps it up life's
success is certain. Governor Tener and Senator Gorman proved it. No
wonder "Billy" Sunday wrote me "I would not take a million dollars for
my experience on the ball field."

It taught him how to knock the Devil out of the box.

Base Ball is invaluable to America. It thrills and so rests tired
nerves. It brings the "shut-in" man into God's healing out-o'-doors.
While yelling he swallows great draughts of lung-expanding, purifying
air and forgets the fear of "taking cold."

He is pulled out of self-centeredness, while shouting for another. He
stands crowd jostling good-naturedly or gets his cussedness squeezed
out. He chums up with any one with easy comments and so gets out of his
shell and melts again into a real human.

Base Ball absolutely pulls the brain away from business. It emphasizes
the value of decency and gives healthy and high toned recreation to
millions. If kept clean its good-doing cannot be measured. Nothing is
worth while that does not do that.




THE SPALDING BASE BALL HALL OF FAME


(From Spalding's Official Base Ball Record.)

New faces enter into the Spalding Base Ball "Hall of Fame" this year.
The object of this "Hall of Fame" is not necessarily to portray the very
top men of each department of the national game, for it frequently
happens in these days, when players take part in only a few innings now
and then, that they become entitled to mention in the records, although
they do not bear the real brunt of the work.

In the "Hall of Fame" will be found the men who might well be termed the
"regulars." Day in and day out they were on the diamond, or ready to
take their place on the diamond, if they were not injured.

NATIONAL LEAGUE.

First of all, Daubert has earned his place at first base for the season
of 1912. Threatening in other years to become one of the group of
leading players, he performed so well in the season past that there is
no doubt as to his right.

There is a new player at second base. The regularity with which Egan of
Cincinnati performed for the Reds earned him a place as the banner
second baseman.

At third base the honor goes to J.R. Lobert, the third baseman of the
Philadelphia club. In this particular instance Lobert was crowded, not
for efficiency, but in the number of games played by Byrne, third
baseman of Pittsburgh, and Herzog, third baseman of New York. In the
matter of chances undertaken on the field, Herzog surpassed both Lobert
and Byrne, but, in justice to Lobert, the honor seems to be fairly
deserved by him.

John H. Wagner, the brilliant veteran of the Pittsburgh club, fought his
way to the position of shortstop in 1912. His fielding was better than
that of his rivals and at times he played the position as only a man of
his sterling worth can play.

Owing to the fact that the able secretary of the National League, John
A. Heydler, has compiled two methods of comparing pitchers, the "Hall of
Fame" in the National League this year will include two faces. They are
those of Hendrix of the Pittsburgh club and Tesreau of the New York
club. The former won the greater percentage of games under the old rule
in vogue of allotting percentage upon victories. Tesreau, however, under
a new rule which classifies pitchers by earned runs, easily led the
league. The editor of the RECORD is very much inclined toward Mr.
Heydler's earned run record; in fact, has suggested a record based upon
the construction of making every pitcher responsible for runs and
computing his average upon the percentage of runs for which he is
responsible. That places Tesreau in the front row, with Mathewson
second.

There are two catchers who run a close race for the "Hall of Fame" in
1912. They are Meyers of New York and Gibson of Pittsburgh. Meyers
caught by far the larger number of games, and, basing the work of
catcher upon the average chances per game, seems to lead his Pittsburgh
rival. Both men are sterling performers, and Meyers is an instance of
the greatest improvement on the part of a catcher of any member of the
major leagues.

For the position of leading outfielder, all things considered, Carey of
Pittsburgh is selected for the "Hall of Fame." Not only did he play in
the greatest number of games of any outfielder, but his general work in
the outfield was sensational.

For the position of leading batsman the "Hall of Fame" honors Zimmerman,
the powerful batter of the Chicago club. His work with the bat in 1912
approached in many ways that of the high class and powerful batters of
old. He batted steadily, with the exception of one very slight slump,
and his work as batter undoubtedly was of tremendous assistance to
Chicago. Zimmerman did not shine alone as the best batter, as he was
also the leading maker of home runs and the best two-base hitter of the
season. That gives him a triple honor.

The best three-base hitter of the league was the quiet Wilson of
Pittsburgh. Though not so high in rank as a batsman as some of his
contemporaries, there was none in the organization who could equal his
ability to get to third base on long hits.

Bescher, as in 1911, earned in 1912 the position of leading base runner
in the National League. He stole more bases than any other player of the
league, and was also the best run getter--that is to say, scored more
runs than any other player.

AMERICAN LEAGUE.

First of all comes Gandil for first base. His greater number of games
played and his steady work at first almost all of the season, as he did
not join the Washingtons at the beginning of the season, places him in
the "Hall of Fame" at first base.

Rath is a newcomer to the Chicago club, but by all around good work he
earned the place at second base. Not so heavy a batter as some of his
rivals, he covered a great amount of ground for the Chicagos and
steadied the infield throughout the year.

For the position of shortstop, McBride of Washington is the logical
selection. Day in and day out he was one of the most reliable shortstops
in the American League.

At third base John Turner of the Cleveland club retains the honor which
he earned for himself in 1911, and he is one of the few players who is a
member of the "Hall of Fame" two years in succession.

In the outfield, for all around work, the place of honor goes to Amos
Strunk, the young player of the Philadelphia club. He was in center
field and in left field, and he was a busy young man for most of the
year.

Pitching at a standard higher than the American League had seen for
years, Wood of Boston is given the "Hall of Fame" honor as pitcher. His
average of winning games was very high, and he was compelled to fight
hard for many of his victories.

The man who caught him seems entitled to be considered the leading
catcher. He is Cady of Boston, although for hard work Carrigan, also of
Boston, gives him a close race.

Once more Cobb is the leading batsman of the American League. There was
none to dispute his right to the title. He was also leading batsman in
1911 and is another American League player who holds a position in the
"Hall" two years in succession.

The leading home run batter of the American League was Baker of
Philadelphia. He earned the same title in 1911. It is a double "Hall of
Fame" distinction for him.

Jackson of Cleveland enters the "Hall of Fame" by being the leading
batter for three-base hits.

Speaker of Boston becomes a member of the high honor group by being the
leading batter of two-base hits.

Lewis of Boston is the leading batter of sacrifice hits.

Collins of Philadelphia was the best run getter.

Last, but by no means least, of all, Milan, the clever outfielder of
Washington, is the best base stealer of the year, and better than all
the rest, earns his distinction in joining the "Hall of Fame" by
establishing a new record of stolen bases.




JOHN TOMLINSON BRUSH

BY JOHN B. FOSTER.


John Tomlinson Brush was born in Clintonville, N.Y., on June 15, 1845.
He died November 26, 1912, near St. Charles, Mo., on his way to
California from New York, for his health. Left an orphan at the age of
four years, he went to live at the home of his grandfather, in
Hopkinton, where he remained until he was seventeen years old. At this
age he left school and went to Boston, where he obtained a position in a
clothing establishment, a business with which he was identified up to
his death. He worked as a clerk in several cities in the East, and
finally went to Indianapolis in 1875 to open a clothing store. The store
still occupies the same building, and Mr. Brush continued at the head of
the business until his death. It was in the early '80s that he first
became interested in Base Ball in Indianapolis, and he made himself both
wealthy and famous as a promoter.

In 1863 Mr. Brush enlisted in the First New York Artillery, and served
as a member of this body until it was discharged, at the close of the
civil war. He was a charter member of George H. Thomas Post, G.A.R.; a
thirty-third degree Scottish Rite Mason, and was also prominently
identified with several social and commercial organizations of
Indianapolis, notably the Columbia Club, Commercial Club, Board of
Trade, and the Mannerchor Society. In New York Mr. Brush took up
membership in the Lambs' Club and the Larchmont Club. For several years
he made his headquarters at the Lambs' Club.

Mr. Brush is survived by his widow, Mrs. Elsie Lombard Brush, and two
daughters, Miss Natalie Brush and Mrs. Harry N. Hempstead. His first
wife, Mrs. Agnes Ewart Brush, died in 1888.

Mr. Brush's career in Base Ball, a sport to which he was devotedly
attached, and for which he had the highest ideals and aims, began with
the Indianapolis club of the National League.

It has been somewhat inaccurately stated that he entered Base Ball by
chance. This was not, strictly speaking, the case. Prior to his first
immediate association with the national game he was an ardent admirer of
the sport, although not connected with it in any capacity as owner. He
was what might be called, with accurate description, a Base Ball "fan"
in the earlier stages of development.

An opportunity presented itself by which it was possible to procure for
the city of Indianapolis a franchise in the National League. Mr. Brush
was quick to perceive the advantages which this might have in an
advertising way for the city with which he had cast his lot and
subscribed to the stock.

Like many such adventures in the early history of the sport there came a
time when the cares and the duties of the club had to be assumed by a
single individual and it was then that he became actively identified as
a managing owner, as the duty of caring for the club fell upon his
shoulders.

From that date, until the date of his death, he was actively interested
in every detail relating to Base Ball which might pertain to the
advancement of the sport, and his principal effort in his future
participation in the game was to see that it advanced on the lines of
the strictest integrity and in such a manner that its foundation should
be laid in the rock of permanent success.

Naturally this was bound to bring him into conflict with some who looked
upon Base Ball as an idle pastime, in which only the present moment was
to be consulted.

The earliest environment of Base Ball was not wholly of a substantial
nature. It was a game, intrinsically good of itself, in which the
hazards had always been against the weak. There was not that
consideration of equity which would have been for its best interests,
but this was not entirely the fault of the separate members of the Base
Ball body, but the result of conditions, in which those whose thought
was only for the moment, overshadowed the best interests of the pastime.

There was an inequity in regulations governing the sport by which the
clubs in the smaller cities were forced, against the will of their
owners, to be the weaker organizations, and possibly this was less due
to a desire upon the more fortunate and larger clubs to maintain such a
state of affairs, than to the fact that the organization generally had
expanded upon lines with little regard to the future.

The first general complaint arose from the players who composed the
membership of the smaller clubs. They demurred at the fact that they
were asked to perform equally as well as the players of the clubs in the
larger cities at smaller salaries. Not that they did not try to do their
best, for this they stoutly attempted under all conditions. It was the
effect of a discrimination which was the result of the imperfect
regulations that existed relative to the management of the game.

This attitude of the players resulted at length in the formation of a
body known as the Brotherhood. To offset not the Brotherhood, but the
cause which led to its formation, Mr. Brush devised the famous
classification plan. Imperfectly understood in what it intended to do
for the players, it was seized upon as a reason for the revolt of the
players and the organization of the Brotherhood League.

At heart it was the idea of Mr. Brush so to equalize salaries that the
players of all clubs should be reimbursed in an equitable manner. As
always had been the case, and probably always is likely to be, the
players who received the larger salaries were in no mood to share with
their weaker brothers any excess margin of pay which they thought that
they had justly earned, and it was not a difficult matter for them to
obtain the consent of players who might really have benefited by the
plan to co-operate with them on the basis of comradeship.

The motives of Mr. Brush were thoroughly misconstrued by some, and, if
grasped by others, they were disregarded, because they conflicted with
their immediate temporary prosperity.

The dead Base Ball organizer had looked further ahead than his time. His
plan was born under the best of intentions, but it unfortunately
devolved upon the theory that players would be willing to share alike
for their common good. Later in life, through another and unquestionably
even better method, he succeeded in bringing forth a plan which attained
the very end for which he sought in the '80s, but in the second resort,
by a far more efficacious method.

The Brotherhood League came into existence and rivaled the National
League. The players of the National League and the American Association
deserted to join the Brotherhood League, upon a platform that promised
Utopia in Base Ball. Unquestionably it was the idea of the general
Brotherhood organization that the National League would abandon the
fight and succumb, but the National League owners were built of sterner
stuff.

They fought back resolutely and hard and while for a time they were
combated by a fickle opinion, based upon sentiment, it developed within
two months that the public had learned thoroughly the reasons for the
organization of the new league and declined to lend it that support
which had been predicted and expected.

Meanwhile, Base Ball had received a setback greater than any which had
befallen the sport in an organized sense from a professional standpoint.

The Brotherhood League was a pronounced and emphatic failure. This is
not the verdict of personal opinion, but a record which is indelibly
impressed upon Base Ball history.

It was the theory of the Brotherhood League that it, in part, should be
governed by representative players, but the players would not be
governed by players. Discipline relaxed, teams did pretty much as they
pleased, and the public remained away from the games. It may be added
with truth that the National League games were not much better
patronized, but that was due to the prevalent apathy in Base Ball
affairs throughout the United States.

When the Brotherhood League was formed and withdrew so many players from
the National League the latter organization undertook to strengthen
itself where it could and when Brooklyn and Cincinnati applied for
membership in the circuit both were admitted.

The New York National League club had lost many of its players and, upon
the substitution of Cincinnati for Indianapolis in the National League
circuit, procured from Mr. Brush many players of note, among them Rusie,
Glasscock, Buckley, Bassett and Denny.

Relative to the withdrawal of Indianapolis from the circuit it may be
said that Mr. Brush flatly refused to give up his club, asserting
stoutly that he was perfectly able to continue the fight, but when he
felt that the exigencies of the occasion demanded that Cincinnati become
a member, he agreed to give up the franchise, providing that he be
permitted to retain his membership in the National League, and transfer
such of his players as New York desired to the latter city. It has been
alleged that he demanded an exorbitant price from New York for the
transfer of the players.

This is untrue. He asked the price of his franchise, the value of his
players, and the worth of giving up a Base Ball year in a city in which
there was to be no conflicting club and, as he had expressed full
confidence in his ability to make a winning fight for the National
League, it was agreed that his rights to be considered could not be
overlooked. To retain his National League membership he accepted stock
in the New York club.

Toward the close of the Base Ball season the Brotherhood League dealt
what it believed to be a death blow to the National League by the
purchase of the Cincinnati franchise. It proved to be a boomerang, for
before the first day of January, 1891, the Brotherhood League had passed
out of existence. The backers of the organization, tired of the general
conduct of the sport, were only too willing to come to an acceptable
agreement and retire.

A.G. Spalding, John T. Brush, Frank De Hass Robison, Charles H. Byrne
and A.H. Soden were prominent members of the National League to bringing
this result about. Of these, Mr. Spalding and Mr. Soden survive, but
have retired from active participation in Base Ball affairs.

It was through this settlement, resulting upon the Base Ball war, that
Mr. Brush's activities were turned toward Cincinnati. The National
League had a franchise in that city, but no one to operate it. Mr. Brush
agreed to take up the franchise and attempt to operate and rebuild that
club. That, however, is a detail which relates purely to the continuance
of a major league circuit.

The next most noticeable achievement in Mr. Brush's Base Ball career
and, to the mind of more than one, the greatest successful undertaking
in the history of the game, was a complete revolution in the
distribution of financial returns. By his success in effecting this Mr.
Brush brought about the very purpose which he had sought to attain by
his classification plan.

But the method was better, for the instruments of this readjustment of
conditions were the owners and not the players. Briefly, it was the
following:

There was still war in Base Ball between the American Association and
the National League. Recognizing that the best method to bring about a
cessation of this war was to effect an amalgamation of the conflicting
forces Mr. Brush sought, with the assistance of others, to weld both
leagues into one. He was aided in this task, though indirectly, because
A.G. Spalding was actively out of Base Ball, by that gentleman, Frank De
Hass Robison, Christopher Von der Abe, and Francis C. Richter, editor of
"Sporting Life" of Philadelphia. The writer also essayed in the task in
an advisory capacity.

The amalgamation was brought about, though not without some opposition;
indeed, much opposition. It was conceded at that time that a twelve-club
league, which was the object sought, was cumbersome and unwieldy, but
there was no other plan of possible accomplishment which suggested
itself.

But the principal consideration and the result accomplished in this
consolidation of leagues was that all gate receipts should be divided,
share and share alike, so far as general admissions were concerned.

That was the greatest and most far-reaching achievement in the history
of Base Ball. Prior to that time the principle of a fixed guarantee for
each game played had given each home club a stupendous bulk of the sums
paid by the public toward the maintenance of the sport. The inevitable
outcome of such an arrangement was that the clubs in the larger cities
completely overshadowed the clubs in the smaller cities.

The teams in the cities of less population were expected to try to place
rival organizations on the field that would equal in playing strength
those of New York, Boston and Chicago, but they were unable to do so
unless their owners were willing to go on year after year with large
deficits staring them in the face.

When Mr. Brush and his associates succeeded in placing Base Ball upon a
plane of absolute fairness, so far as the proper distribution of the
returns of the sport could be made between clubs, Base Ball began to
prosper, and, for the first time in all its history, the owners of
so-called smaller clubs felt that they could go forward and try to rival
their bigger fellows with equally strong combinations.

More than that, and which to the ball player is most important of all,
it "jumped" the salaries of the players in the smaller clubs until they
were on equal terms with their fellow players in the larger clubs, so
that Mr. Brush helped to accomplish by this plan the very aim which he
had at heart when he proposed the classification plan--a just, impartial
and equal reimbursement to every player in the game, so far as the
finances of each club would permit--and without that bane to all
players, a salary limit.

Thus, while it is always probable that some players may receive more
than others, based upon their preponderance of skill, it is now a fact
that two-thirds of the major league ball players of the present day owe
their handsome salaries to the system which John T. Brush so earnestly
urged and for which he fought against odds which would have daunted a
man with less fixity of purpose.

Having brought forth this new condition in Base Ball, which was so just
that its results almost immediately began to make themselves manifest,
the owner of the Cincinnati club devoted his time and his energies to
the endeavor to place a championship club in Cincinnati. He never was
successful in that purpose, although his ill fortune was no greater than
that of his predecessors.

The time came that Mr. Brush learned that the New York Base Ball Club
could be purchased. He obtained the stock necessary to make him owner of
the New York organization from Mr. Andrew Freedman, but before he did so
another Base Ball war had begun between the National League and the
American League, a disagreement starting from the simplest of causes,
but which, like many another such disagreement, resulted in the most
damaging of conditions to the prosperity of the pastime.

As had been the case in the prior war brought about by the organization
of the Brotherhood League, Mr. Brush fought staunchly for his rights.
Prominent National League players were taken by the American League
clubs, and this brought retaliation.

At length the National League opened negotiations to obtain certain
American League players and succeeded in doing so. Among these were the
manager of the Baltimore club, John J. McGraw, who felt that he was
acting perfectly within his rights in joining the New York National
League club. Directly upon his acceptance of the management of the New
York club Mr. Brush became its owner and the era of prosperity was
inaugurated in New York, which was soon enjoyed by every club throughout
the United States.

In its first year under the new management the team was not in condition
to make a good fight, but the next year it was ready and since then has
won four National League championships and one World's Championship.

In the spring of 1911, at the very dawn of the National League season,
the grand stand of the New York National League club burned to the
ground. A man less determined would have been overcome by such a blow.
Nothing daunted and while the flames were not yet quenched, Mr. Brush
sent for engineers to devise plans for the magnificent stadium which
bears his name and which, on the Polo Grounds in New York, is one of the
greatest and the most massive monument to professional Base Ball in the
world.

In connection with this wonderful new edifice of steel and stone, which
is one of the wonders of the new world, it is appropriate to add that
two world's series have been played on the field of the Polo Grounds
since it has been erected.

The rules for these world's series were formulated and adopted upon the
suggestion and by the advice of Mr. Brush and since a regular world's
series season has been a feature of Base Ball the national game has
progressed with even greater strides than was the case in the past.

At a meeting of the National League the following resolutions were
adopted:

  _Whereas_, The death of Mr. John T. Brush, president of the New York
  National League Base Ball Club, comes as a sad blow to organized
  professional Base Ball and particularly to us, his associates in the
  National League.

  As the dean of organized professional Base Ball, his wise counsel, his
  unerring judgment, his fighting qualities and withal his eminent
  fairness and integrity in all matters pertaining to the welfare of the
  national game will be surely missed.

  He was a citizen of sterling worth, of high moral standards and of
  correct business principles, and his death is not only a grievous loss
  to us, but to the community at large as well. Be it, therefore,

  _Resolved_, That the members of the National League of Professional
  Base Ball Clubs, in session to-day, express their profound grief at
  the loss of their friend, associate and counsellor and extend to the
  members of his bereaved family their sincere sympathy in the great
  loss which they have sustained by his death. Be it further

  _Resolved_, That a copy of these resolutions be spread on the records
  of the league.

In connection with the death of Mr. Brush, Ben Johnson, president of the
American League, said: "Mr. Brush was a power in Base Ball. He will be
missed as much in the American League as in the National League."

More than three hundred friends, relatives, business acquaintances,
lodge brothers and Base Ball associates attended the funeral of Mr.
Brush, on Friday, November 29, at St. Paul's Episcopal Church,
Indianapolis. Fifty or more of Mr. Brush's Base Ball associates and
acquaintances, principally from the East, were present.

The service was conducted by the Rev. Lewis Brown, rector of St. Paul's,
and was followed by a Scottish Rite ceremony in charge of William Geake,
Sr., of Fort Wayne, acting thrice potent master, and official head of
the thirty-third degree in Indiana. The Scottish Rite delegation
numbered more than 150. There were also in attendance fifty Knights
Templars of Rapier Commandery, under the leadership of Eminent Commander
E.J. Scoonover.

The Grand Army of the Republic, the Indianapolis Commercial Club and a
number of local and out-of-town clubs and social organizations of which
Mr. Brush was a member also were represented.

The Episcopal service was given impressively. The Rev. Dr. Brown, in
reviewing the life of Mr. Brush, spoke of him as one of the remarkable
men of America, who, in his youth, gave no promise of being in later
life a national figure. In the course of his remarks Dr. Brown said:

"The death of John Tomlinson Brush removes from our midst one of the
most remarkable men of our generation. His life was that of a typical
American. He began in the most unpretentious manner and died a figure of
national importance.

"He went through the Civil War so quietly that the fact was unknown to
some of his most intimate friends. He was mustered out with honor and
entered the business world in Indianapolis. His labors here put him at
the forefront for sagacity, squareness, honorable treatment and
generosity.

"His love of sport made him a patron of the national game. In a
perfectly natural way, he went from manager of the local team to
proprietor of the New York Giants. He was a Bismarck in plan and a
Napoleon in execution. His aim was pre-eminence and he won place by the
consent of all. The recent spectacular outpouring of people and colossal
financial exhibit in the struggle for the pennant between New York and
Boston were but the legitimate outcome of his marvelous skill.

"He was an early member of the Masonic fraternity. He took his Blue
Lodge degree in his native town and to demonstrate his attachment he
never removed his membership. Where he had been raised to the sublime
degree of a master there he wished to keep his affiliation always.

"He became a Knight Templar in Rapier Commandery and was one of its past
eminent commanders. He was a member of the Scottish Rite bodies in the
Valley of Indianapolis in the early days and performed his work with a
ritual perfection unsurpassed. He received the thirty-third and last
degree as a merited honor for proficiency and zeal.

"The conspicuous feature of his life was its indomitable purpose."




THE WORLD'S SERIES OF 1912

BY JOHN B. FOSTER.


No individual, whether player, manager, owner, critic or spectator, who
went through the world's series of 1912 ever will forget it. There never
was another like it. Years may elapse before there shall be a similar
series and it may be that the next to come will be equally sensational,
perhaps more so.

Viewed from the very strict standpoint that all Base Ball games should
be played without mistake or blunder this world's series may be said to
have been inartistic, but it is only the hypercritical theorist who
would take such a cold-blooded view of the series.

From the lofty perch of the "bleacherite" it was a series crammed with
thrills and gulps, cheers and gasps, pity and hysteria, dejection and
wild exultation, recrimination and adoration, excuse and condemnation,
and therefore it was what may cheerfully be called "ripping good" Base
Ball.

There were plays on the field which simply lifted the spectators out of
their seats in frenzy. There were others which caused them to wish to
sink through the hard floor of the stand in humiliation. There were
stops in which fielders seemed to stretch like india rubber and others
in which they shriveled like parchment which has been dried. There were
catches of fly balls which were superhuman and muffs of fly balls which
were "superawful."

There were beautiful long hits, which threatened to change the outcome
of games and some of them did. There were opportunities for other
beautiful long hits which were not made.

No ingenuity of stage preparation, no prearranged plot of man, no
cunningly devised theory of a world's series could have originated a
finale equal to that of the eighth and decisive contest. Apparently on
the verge of losing the series after the Saturday game in Boston the
Giants had gamely fought their way to a tie with Boston, and it was one
of the pluckiest and gamest fights ever seen in a similar series, and
just as the golden apple seemed about to drop into the hands of the New
York players they missed it because Dame Fortune rudely jostled them
aside.

As a matter of fact the New York players were champions of the world for
nine and one half innings, for they led Boston when the first half of
the extra inning of the final game was played. Within the next six
minutes they had lost all the advantage which they had gained.

It was a combination of bad fielding and lack of fielding which cost the
New York team its title. And if only Mathewson had not given Yerkes a
base on balls in the tenth inning the game might not have been won, even
with the fielding blunders, but Mathewson was pitching with all the
desperation and the cunning which he could muster to fool the batter and
failed to do so.

Such sudden and complete reversal on the part of the mental demeanor of
spectators was never before seen on a ball field in a world's series.
The Boston enthusiasts had given up and were willing to concede the
championship to New York. In the twinkling of an eye there was a muffed
fly, a wonderful catch by the same player who muffed the
ball--Snodgrass--a base on balls to Yerkes, a missed chance to retire
Speaker easily on a foul fly, then a base hit by Speaker to right field,
on which Engel scored, another base on balls to Lewis and then the long
sacrifice fly to right field by Gardner, which sent Yerkes over the
plate with the winning run.

Before entering upon a description of the games it is appropriate to say
that the umpiring in this series was as near perfection as it could be.
It was by far the best of any since the series had been inaugurated. The
umpires were William Klem and Charles Rigler of the National League and
Frank O'Loughlin and William Evans of the American League.

FIRST GAME
New York, Oct. 8, 1912.
Boston 4, New York 3.
Hits--Off Wood 8; off Tesreau 5; Crandall 1.
Struck out--Wood 11; Tesreau 4; Crandall 2.
Bases on balls--Wood 2; Tesreau 4.
Attendance 35,722.

In the description of the games of the world's series only those innings
will be touched upon in which there were men on bases. Tesreau pitched
the opening game for New York and the first man to bat for Boston was
Hooper. Tesreau gave him a base on balls. The next three batters were
retired in succession. Devore and Doyle, the first two batters for New
York, were retired and Snodgrass hit cleanly to center field, the first
base hit in the series. Murray was given a base on balls, but Merkle
flied to short. In the second inning the Bostons started as bravely as
they had in the first, as Gardner, the first batter, was safe on
Fletcher's fumble. Stahl batted to Tesreau and Gardner was forced out.
Wagner was given a base on balls, after Stahl had been thrown out trying
to steal second, and Cady flied to Murray.

The Bostons started with a man on base in the third. Wood was given a
base on balls by Tesreau and Hooper sacrificed. Doyle threw Yerkes out
and Speaker was given a base on balls, but Lewis died easily on a weak
fly to short.

In New York's half of this inning the Giants scored twice. Tesreau,
first at bat, struck out. Devore was given a base on balls and Doyle
batted wickedly to left field for two bases. Snodgrass was fooled into
striking out, but Murray smashed the ball to center field for a single,
and sent two men over the rubber, Murray was caught at second trying to
get around the bases while Doyle was going home.

With one out Herzog hit safely in the fourth inning, but did not score.
In the fifth, with two out, Doyle batted safely, but failed to score. In
the sixth the Bostons made their first runs on Speaker's triple to left
field and Lewis' out. If Snodgrass, in making a desperate effort to
catch the fly, had permitted the ball to go to Devore the chances are
that Speaker's hit would have resulted in an out, so that New York lost
on the play.

Snodgrass was safe in the sixth on Wagner's fumble, but was doubled off
first when Murray drove a line hit straight to Stahl. The seventh was
the undoing of the Giants. With one out Wagner batted safely to center
field. Cady followed with another hit to the same place. Wood batted to
Doyle, who made a beautiful stop, but with a double play in hand, was
overbalanced and unable to complete it. That cost New York three runs,
although it was unavoidable. Cady was forced out, but Hooper hit to
right field for two bases sending Wagner and Wood home. Yerkes followed
with a clean hit to left field for a base and won the first game for
Boston with that hit.

In New York's half of the inning, with one out, Meyers was hit by a
pitched ball, but no damage was done other than to Meyers' feelings. In
the ninth Wagner batted Crandall for a two-base hit, Crandall having
been substituted for Tesreau in the eighth inning, as McCormick had
batted for Tesreau in the seventh. Cady made a sacrifice, but the next
two batters were easily retired.

Then began the exciting finish, and if the Giants had made but a single
more they probably would have begun the series with a victory instead of
a defeat. With one out Merkle batted the ball over second base for a
single and the spectators, who had started toward the exits, halted.
Herzog followed with a slow low fly to right field, which fell safely.
Meyers crashed into the ball for a two-bagger that struck the wall in
right field and the crowd began to believe that Wood had gone up in
"smoke."

The Boston players encouraged him with all their best vocal efforts, and
when Fletcher came to the plate Wood was using all the speed with which
he was possessed. It was evident that Fletcher's sole desire was to bat
the ball safely to right field, for if he did so, both of the runners
could cross the plate and the Giants would win. Twice he met the ball,
and both times it sailed in the right direction, but with no result, as
it was foul. Then he struck out. Crandall, perhaps one of the best pinch
hitters in the major leagues, also struck out, and the Boston
enthusiasts who were present fell back in their chairs from sheer
exhaustion, but when they had recovered, with their band leading them,
marched across the field and cheered Mayor Fitzgerald of Boston, who was
present as a spectator of the contest in company with Mayor Gaynor of
New York. Governor Foss of Massachusetts was also present at the opening
of the game. Klem umpired behind the bat in this game.

SECOND GAME
Boston, Oct. 9, 1912.
New York 6. Boston 6 (eleven innings).
Hits--Off Collins 9, off Hall 2; Mathewson 10.
Struck out--Collins 5, Bedient 1; Mathewson 4
Bases on balls--Hall 4, Bedient 1.
Attendance 30,148.

In the second game of the series, which was played October 9 at Boston,
Mathewson pitched for the New York team and Collins, Hall and Bedient
for Boston. The game resulted in a tie, 6 to 6, at the end of the
eleventh inning, being called on account of darkness by Umpire
O'Loughlin, who was acting behind the plate. This contest was remarkable
more for the misplays of the New York players, which gave the Bostons a
chance to save themselves from defeat, than for any undue familiarity
with the pitching of Mathewson. It was the universal opinion of
partisans of both teams that Mathewson deserved to win because he
outpitched his opponents. The weather was fair and the ground in
excellent condition. In the first inning Snodgrass began with a clean
two-base hit into the left field seats but neither Doyle, Becker nor
Murray was able to help him across the plate. A run scored in that
inning, with such a fine start, would probably have won the game for the
Giants.

In Boston's half Hooper hit safely to center field and stole second
base. Yerkes batted a line drive to Fletcher, and had the New York
shortstop held the ball, which was not difficult to catch, Hooper could
easily have been doubled at second, but Fletcher muffed it. Speaker hit
safely toward third base, filling the bases. Lewis batted to Herzog, who
made a fine play on the ball and caught Hooper at the plate. This should
have been the third out and would have retired Boston without a run.
Gardner was put out by a combination play on the part of Mathewson,
Doyle and Merkle, scoring Yerkes, and Stahl came through with a hard
line hit for a base, which scored Speaker and Lewis. The inning netted
Boston three runs, which were not earned.

With one out in the second inning Herzog batted for three bases to
center field and scored on Meyers' single. Fletcher flied out and
Mathewson forced Meyers out. Hooper got a two-base hit in the same
inning, but two were out at the time and Fletcher easily threw out
Yerkes, who was the next batter.

In the fourth inning Murray began with a clean three-base hit to center
field. Merkle fouled out to the third baseman, but Herzog's long fly to
Speaker was an excellent sacrifice and Murray scored. Meyers again hit
for a single, but was left on the bases. The Bostons got this run back
in the last half of the fifth. With one out Hooper hit to center field
for a base, his third hit in succession against Mathewson. Yerkes batted
a three-bagger out of the reach of Snodgrass and Hooper scored. Murray
batted safely in the sixth, with one out, but died trying to steal
second, Carrigan catching for Boston. In the Boston's half of the sixth
Lewis began with a single and got as far as third base, but could not
score.

The Giants started bravely in the seventh when Herzog hit the ball for a
base and stole second. There were three chances to get him home, but
Meyers, who had been hitting Collins hard, failed to make a single and
Fletcher and Mathewson were both retired.

In the eighth the New York players made one of the game rallies for
which they became famed all through the series and went ahead of their
rivals. Snodgrass was the first batter and lifted an easy fly to Lewis.
The Boston player got directly under the ball and made a square muff of
it. Doyle followed along with a sharp hit to center field for a base and
although he was forced out by Becker, the latter drove the ball hard.
Murray came through with a long two-bagger to left center and Snodgrass
and Becker scored. That tied the score and also put an end to Collins'
work in the box; Stahl took him out and substituted Hall. Merkle fouled
weakly to the catcher, but Herzog caught the ball on the nose and hit
sharp and clean to center field for two bases, sending Murray home with
the run which put the Giants in the lead. Another base hit would have
won for New York, but Meyers perished on a hard hit to Wagner, which was
fielded to first ahead of the batter.

Unfortunately for New York, with two out in the last half of the inning
Lewis batted the ball to left field for two bases. Murray made a
desperate effort to get it. He tumbled backward over the fence into the
bleachers and for a few moments there were some who thought that he had
been seriously injured. Gardner followed with a single to center and
Stahl hit to right for a base, but Wagner struck out and the Bostons
were down with only a run.

In the ninth Hall gave a remarkable exhibition. Fletcher and Mathewson
were retired in succession. Then Snodgrass, Doyle and Becker were given
bases on balls, filling the bags. It seemed certain that a run might
score, and perhaps one would have scored had it not been for an
excellent stop by Wagner. Murray hit the ball at him like a shot, but he
got it and retired Becker at second.

The Giants took the lead in the tenth and once more it appeared as if
the game would be theirs. Merkle began with a long three-base hit to
center field. Herzog batted to Wagner and Merkle played safe, refusing
to try to score while the batter was being put out at first. Meyers was
given a base on balls and Shafer ran for him. Fletcher lifted a long fly
to left field and Merkle scored from third. Mathewson could not advance
the runners and died on an infield fly. Yerkes was the first batter for
the Bostons and was retired at first base. Speaker hit to deep center
field. There were some scorers who gave the batter but three bases on
the hit, insisting that Wilson, who was then catching for New York,
should have got the throw to the plate and retired the batter. In any
event Wilson missed the ball and Speaker scored. Lewis followed with a
two-bagger, which would have scored Speaker if the latter had not tried
to run home, so Wilson's failure to retrieve the throw became more
conspicuous. Other scorers gave Speaker a clean home run and it is not
far out of the way to say that he deserved the benefit of the doubt.

Neither team scored in the eleventh inning, although Snodgrass was hit
by a pitched ball. He was the first batter. He tried to steal second,
but failed to make it.

This contest was conspicuous because of the wonderfully good fielding of
Doyle and Wagner. The former made two stops along the right field line
which seemed to be not far from superhuman. Wagner killed at least two
safe hits over second base for New York and both of the plays were of
the greatest benefit to the Boston team.

THIRD GAME.
Boston, Oct. 10, 1912.
New York 2; Boston 1.
Hits--Off Marquard 7; O'Brien 6, Bedient 1.
Struck out--Marquard 6, O'Brien 3.
Bases on balls--Marquard 1; O'Brien 3.
Attendance 34,624.

Because of the tie game the teams remained over in Boston and played on
the following day, October 10. The pitchers were Marquard for New York
and O'Brien and Bedient for Boston. Marquard pitched one of the best
games of his career and not a run was made against him until the ninth
inning. By far the most notable play of the game on the field was made
by Devore in the ninth inning, when he ran for more than thirty feet and
caught an almost impossible fly ball which had been batted by Cady. Had
he missed it the Bostons might have scored two runs and won. Devore
began the first inning with a base hit, but was out trying to steal
second. The next two batters were retired. In the second inning Murray
batted the ball to center field for two bases. Merkle's clever sacrifice
put him on third and Herzog's sacrifice fly sent him over the rubber.
Lewis began the inning for Boston with a safe hit, but could not advance
further than second.

In the third Fletcher started with a base on balls and was sacrificed to
second, but was unable to score. In the fourth, with one out, Speaker
batted safely, but was forced out at second. Gardner flied to Murray.

In the fifth Herzog began with a two-base hit to left field. Meyers died
at first, but Fletcher hit safely to right field and Herzog scored.
Fletcher stole second and Marquard was given a base on balls. Devore
forced him out and stole second and Doyle followed with another base on
balls. A long hit would have made the game easy for New York and
Snodgrass tried to get the ball into the bleachers, but Lewis caught it.
Stahl began the Bostons' half of the fifth with a hit, but was out by
ten feet trying to steal second.

In the sixth, with two out, Yerkes hit safely, but Speaker fouled out.
In the seventh, with two out, Stahl batted the ball to left field for
two bases, but Wagner flied to Devore.

In the eighth the Giants looked dangerous again. Devore began with a
base-hit to left field. Doyle flied to Lewis. Snodgrass hit safely to
left field and Murray flied to Lewis. Merkle batted the ball very hard,
but Wagner made a good stop and caught Snodgrass at second. With two out
Hooper got a base on balls for Boston, but it did Boston no good.

In the ninth Herzog was hit by a pitched ball and Meyers swung solidly
to center for a single, after Herzog had died trying to steal. Fletcher
lined to Speaker and Meyers was doubled. In Boston's half, with one out,
Lewis batted to right field for a base. Gardner hit to the same place
for two bases and Lewis scored Boston's only run. Stahl rapped a
grounder to Marquard, who threw Gardner out at third. Wagner should have
been an easy out, and the game would have been over if Merkle had not
dropped a throw to first base. Wagner stole second, no attention being
paid to him, and then Devore made his wonderfully good catch of Cady's
hard drive and the Giants had won their first game in the series.

Marquard outpitched both of his Boston rivals and in only two innings
were the Bostons able to get the first man on the bases.

FOURTH GAME.
New York, Oct. 11, 1912.
Boston 3, New York 1.
Hits--Off Wood 9; off Tesreau 5, Ames 3.
Struck out--Wood 8; Tesreau 5.
Bases on balls--Ames 1, Tesreau 2.
Attendance 36,502.

The fourth game of the series was played in New York on the following
day. For most of the forenoon it looked as if there would be no game
because of rain. Toward noon it cleared up slightly and although the
ground was a little soft it was decided to play, in view of the fact
that so many spectators had come a long distance to witness the contest.
The soft ground was in favor of the Boston players, for the ball was
batted very hard by New York most of the afternoon, but the diamond held
and the infielders were able to get a good grasp on grounders which
would ordinarily have been very difficult to handle. Tesreau pitched for
New York and Wood for Boston, as was the case in the opening game of the
series. Hooper, who batted with much success on the Polo Grounds, began
with a single to center and although Yerkes was safe on Meyers' wild
throw the Giants got out of a bad predicament handily because of the
excellent stops which were made by Fletcher of hits by Speaker and
Lewis. With one out in New York's half of the inning Doyle batted
safely, but Snodgrass forced him out.

Gardner began the second inning with a three-base hit to right field and
scored on a wild pitch. The next three batters were retired in order.
With one out for New York, Merkle singled and stole second, but was not
helped to get home.

The third was started by a single by Wood and Hooper was given a base on
balls. Yerkes bunted and Tesreau whipped the ball to third base ahead of
Wood. Doyle and Fletcher made two fine stops and Speaker and Lewis were
retired.

Boston added another run in the fourth inning, being assisted by
Tesreau's wildness. Gardner, who batted first, was given a base on
balls. Stahl forced him out at second. Then Stahl stole second, to the
immediate surprise of the Boston players and the chagrin of the New York
catcher. Wagner's out at first helped him along and when Cady pushed a
weak single to center field, just out of the reach of the players, Stahl
scored. Wood was retired by Murray.

With one out in the fifth Yerkes batted for a base, but was thrown out
at second on Speaker's grounder and Speaker died trying to steal. New
York had one out in the same inning, when Herzog hit safely, but neither
Meyers nor Fletcher could help him.

In the sixth the New York players began with a rush. Tesreau, the first
batter, hit for a base. Devore followed with another single. Doyle with
a "clean up" could have won for the Giants, but he lifted a high fly to
Yerkes. Snodgrass batted to Yerkes, who made an extraordinarily good
stop and threw Devore out at second. Murray forced Snodgrass at second
and all. New York's early advantage went for naught.

In the seventh the Giants scored their only run. After Merkle had struck
out, Herzog batted for a base. Meyers lifted a terrific line drive to
center field, but Speaker got under the ball. Fletcher hit hard and safe
to right field for two bases and Herzog scored. McCormick batted for a
base, but Fletcher, trying to score on the ball, was thrown out at the
plate by Yerkes.

In the eighth, with two out, Snodgrass was safe on Wagner's fumble.
Murray rapped a single to left field but Merkle struck out. With two out
for Boston Speaker batted a double to left field and was left. Ames
pitched in the eighth for New York. In the ninth the Giants were scored
upon again when Gardner hit for a single to center field. Stahl
sacrificed, Wagner was given a base on balls and Cady forced Wagner,
while Gardner was scoring.

FIFTH GAME.
Boston, Oct. 12. 1912.
Boston 2; New York 1.
Hits--Off Mathewson 5; Bedient 3.
Struck out--Mathewson 2; Bedient 4.
Bases on balls--Bedient 3.
Attendance 34,683.

The game was played on Saturday with Mathewson in the box for New York
and Bedient for Boston. As was the case in the former game pitched by
Mathewson in Boston, the verdict was general that perfect support would
have won the contest for him, even though the score was but 2 to 1 in
favor of Boston. Devore received a base on balls in the first inning and
after Doyle was out on a long fly to right was forced out by Snodgrass
in a double play. By the way this game was played under very adverse
conditions so far as the weather was concerned. It was cold and gloomy.
Hooper, the first Boston batter, as usual, began with his single to
center field. Yerkes flied out to shortstop. Speaker hit safely and
Lewis batted to Herzog, who made a beautiful stop on third, and touched
the base ahead of Hooper. Gardner struck out.

In the second inning Murray started off with a base on balls and the
next three batters were retired in succession. With one out for Boston,
Wagner batted safely to right field. The next two men were retired
without reaching first.

With one out in the third, Mathewson batted a single to center field and
Devore followed with a base on balls, but Bedient got the next two
batters.

The third was the inning which broke the backs of the Giants. Hooper
batted the ball to left center for three bases. Yerkes followed with a
triple to center and Hooper scored. Speaker contributed with a ground
hit, which Doyle should have got, but fumbled. Had he recovered the ball
Boston would have made but one run in the inning. As it was, Yerkes
scored on the misplay and that run lost the game for the Giants. The
next two batters were retired and for the remainder of the contest
Boston never had a man on first base, Mathewson pitching marvelous ball,
by far the best game of the series, as it should easily have been a one
run contest with not a base on balls nor a wild pitch.

In the seventh inning Merkle began with a two-base hit to left field
Herzog flied out to Wagner. Meyers flied out, but McCormick who batted
for Fletcher, made a hit and Merkle scored. That spurt gave the Giants
their sole run and they returned to New York that night with the series
three to one against them.

SIXTH GAME.
New York, Oct. 14, 1912
New York 5; Boston 2.
Hits--Off Marquard 7; O'Brien 6, Collins 5.
Struck out--Marquard 3; O'Brien 1, Collins 1.
Bases on balls--Marquard 1.
Attendance 30,622.

With a Sunday in which to rest the series was resumed in New York on
Monday, October 14. Marquard pitched for the Giants and O'Brien for the
Bostons. Rest seemed to have recuperated the New York players more than
their opponents. In the first inning of the game the Giants scored five
runs and the contest was never in doubt after that. O'Brien made a
costly balk in the first inning and the Boston players generally seemed
to be less energetic and less confident than would have been expected
from a team which had but one game to win to make the championship
assured.

The first inning really settled the outcome of the contest. After the
Giants had made five runs Boston played through the other eight innings
perfunctorily. The crowd of Boston enthusiasts, which had come to New
York to see the finishing touches put on the Giants, was bitterly
disappointed, while the New York enthusiasts, not over hopeful on
account of the disposition of the Giants to blunder badly at vital
moments, were at least in a much better frame of mind because of the
rally by their team.

Hooper was first at bat and as usual hit for a base. He was caught
napping off first. Yerkes was easily retired. Speaker was given a base
on balls and Lewis flied out.

In New York's half Devore was retired at first. Doyle hit safely to
center field. He stole second after Snodgrass struck out. Murray batted
a single to left field and Doyle went to third. O'Brien made a palpable
balk and Doyle scored from third, Murray going to second. Merkle banged
a hard double to right field, Herzog followed with a double to left
field, Meyers singled to left field, and actually stole second under the
noses of the Boston players. Fletcher singled to right field and Meyers
scored the fifth run of the inning; the other men who had crossed the
plate being Doyle, Murray, Merkle and Herzog.

In Boston's half of the second inning the Boston players scored twice
and that was all they made in the game. Gardner was safe at first on
Marquard's wild throw; Stahl singled to center. The next two batters
were easily retired, but Engle, who batted for O'Brien, hit to left
field for two bases, Devore missing the ball by pushing it away from him
as he was running into it, and Gardner and Stahl scored.

Boston began the third inning and the fourth inning with singles, but
the runners failed to get around. In the eighth, with one out, Yerkes
made a single, but was unable to score.

With one out in the third for New York, Murray singled to right field,
but was out trying to stretch the hit. Merkle hit for a base to left
field and was out trying to steal.

In the fourth, with one out, Meyers batted to left field for three
bases, but was unable to score. These latter hits were made against
Collins, who had taken O'Brien's place in the box.

Devore began the fifth with a hit, but Doyle flied to short, and Devore
was doubled off first in a play from right field. Collins continued to
be effective in the next three innings, but the mischief had been done,
so far as Boston was concerned, and the Red Sox simply did not have a
rally in them.

The teams again took a special train for Boston after the game and the
remainder of the cavalcade followed over at midnight.

SEVENTH GAME.
Boston, Oct. 15, 1912.
New York 11; Boston 4.
Hits--Off Tesreau 9; Wood 7, Hall 9.
Struck-out--Tesreau 6; Hall 1.
Bases on balls--Hall 5; Tesreau 5.
Attendance 32,630.

The seventh game was played on Fenway Park, with Wood pitching for
Boston and Tesreau for the Giants. Wood pitched for one inning and was
hammered in every direction by the New York players, who ran riot on the
field. They simply overwhelmed Boston and this contest, more than any
other in the series, was so "one sided" as to be devoid of interest,
except to the New York fans, who were eager to see the Giants win the
championship. Devore, the first batter, hit safely to left field. Doyle
rapped a single to center. Devore and Doyle made a double steal and that
began the fireworks. Snodgrass pushed a double to right field. Murray's
hit was a sacrifice. Merkle singled to center field. Herzog batted to
Wood and Merkle was run down between second and third. Meyers singled to
left field, Fletcher doubled to right field, and Tesreau made his first
hit of the series, a single to left field. That counted all told six
runs for the Giants and Tesreau added cruelty to the sufferings of the
Red Sox by trying to steal second base and almost making it.

In the second inning Gardner made a home run. Hall took the place of
Wood in the box for Boston and Devore was given a base on balls. He
stole second and Doyle got a base on balls. Devore was caught napping,
but Snodgrass singled to right, scoring Doyle. The two next batters were
retired.

In the third Hall was safe on Fletcher's wild throw and Hooper singled
but neither scored. Herzog and Meyers began with singles for New York,
but neither of them got home. With one out in the fourth, Gardner was
hit by a pitched ball and Stahl singled to left field. Neither of these
players scored.

In the fifth Hall began with a two-bagger to left. Hooper was given a
base on balls and was forced out by Yerkes. Speaker was given a base on
balls. The next two batters were retired, leaving Hall on third. There
were two out for New York when Meyers made his third single, but he
failed to get home.

With one out in the sixth for Boston Wagner hit safely, but Cady was
easily retired. Hall was given a base on balls, but Hooper struck out,
ending the inning. In New York's half, with one out, Devore was given a
base on balls. Doyle batted the ball over the fence in right field for a
home run and Devore scored ahead of him.

In Boston's half of the seventh, with one out, Speaker singled to
center. Lewis batted to left field for two bases. That put Speaker on
third. While Fletcher was getting Gardner out of the way, Speaker scored
and Lewis reached home on Doyle's fumble of Stahl's grounder. In New
York's half of this inning Merkle began with a single to center. Herzog
flied to left field. Meyers made his fourth single of the afternoon, but
Fletcher flied to right field. Tesreau hit to right for a base and
Merkle scored.

In the eighth Doyle muffed Cady's fly. Hall singled to right. Hooper's
sacrifice fly gave Cady a run, Doyle began for New York with a single,
but the next three batters were retired in order.

In the ninth Herzog began with a base on balls. Wilson, who was
catching, singled to center. He was doubled up with Fletcher on a long
fly hit. Herzog, however, eventually scored his run, which was the
seventh of the game for New York.

In this contest the Giants ran bases with such daring that they had the
Boston players confused and uncertain. Cady did not know whether to
throw the ball or hold it, and the general exhibition of speed on the
bases which was made by New York was characteristic of the team's dash
in the race for the championship of the National League, and a system
which the Boston players could not fathom.

EIGHTH GAME.
Boston, Oct. 16, 1912.
Boston 3; New York 2 (ten innings.)
Hits--Off Bedient 6, Wood 3; Mathewson 8.
Struck out--Bedient 2, Wood 2; Mathewson 4.
Bases on balls--Bedient 3, Wood 1; Mathewson 5.
Attendance 16,970.

On the following day, before the smallest crowd of the series, the final
game was played in Boston. Many Boston fans, disgruntled at the manner
in which some of them had been seated, deliberately remained away. The
air was cold and bleak and in addition to all the rest the enthusiasts
of Boston had given up the fight. Which merely goes to show the
uncertainty of Base Ball. The New York players unquestionably had the
championship won for nine and one half innings of the final game and
then, by the simplest of errors, overturned all of the good which they
had accomplished in their wonderful rally of the two days preceding.
After outplaying the Bostons in a manner which showed some thing of the
caliber of the teams when both were going at top speed, the New York
team stopped short. As one wit dryly put it: "Boston did not win the
championship, but New York lost it."

Mathewson pitched for New York and Bedient for Boston until the end of
the seventh inning.

With two out for the Giants in the first Snodgrass was given a base on
balls, but Murray was retired. Two were out for Boston when Speaker hit
for a single to right field, but Lewis struck out. Again in the second
two were out for New York when Meyers was safe on Speaker's muff.
Fletcher singled over second, but Mathewson flied out.

Hooper began the third with a base hit, but was left. Devore started for
New York with a base on balls. Doyle and Snodgrass were out in
succession, Devore advancing, and then Murray doubled to center field
and Devore scored. In the fourth Herzog started with a two-bagger and if
the ground rule had not been changed he would have had an easy triple,
and ultimately a run, which would have changed all the outcome of the
game. As it was, he did not score. In the fifth Devore began with a
single and was out stealing second after Doyle had flied out and Hooper
had made the most wonderful catch of the series, reaching over the right
field fence to get the ball with his bare band. Snodgrass singled and
Murray fouled out.

In the sixth Meyers received a base on balls with two out but did not
score. With one out Yerkes singled to right field and Speaker got a base
on balls but no run followed.

In the seventh Mathewson began with a single and was forced out by
Devore, who was left on bases while two batters were retired. For
Boston, with one out, Stahl hit safely to center field. It was a pop
fly, which fell between three men, Fletcher, Murray and Snodgrass.
Wagner was given a base on balls and Cady was an easy out. Henriksen,
batting for Bedient, with two strikes against him, drove the ball on a
line toward third base. In fact, it hit third base. It bounded so far
back that Stahl scored the tieing run of the game.

No runs were scored by either team in the eighth or the ninth innings.
In the tenth, with one out, Murray lined a double to left field and
scored on Merkle's hard single over second. That put the Giants in the
lead, with Merkle on second. Herzog struck out and Wood threw out
Meyers. The ball had been batted so hard by Meyers to Wood that it
crippled the pitcher's hand and compelled him to cease playing. It was
fortunate for Boston that the hit kept low. So much speed had been put
into it by the stalwart Indian catcher that had the ball got into the
outfield it would have gone to the fence. It was the undoing of Wood,
but it really led to the victory of Boston.

Engle batted for Wood in the tenth. He rapped a long fly to center field
which was perfectly played by Snodgrass, but the center fielder dropped
the ball. Engle went to second base.

On top of his simple muff Snodgrass made a magnificent catch of Hooper's
fly, which seemed to be good for three bases. Mathewson bent every
energy to strike out Yerkes, but the batter would not go after the wide
curves which were being served to him by the New York pitcher and
finally was given a base on balls.

Speaker hit the first ball pitched for an easy foul which should have
been caught by Merkle. The ball dropped between Merkle, Meyers and
Mathewson. As was afterward proved the capture of this foul would have
saved the championship for the Giants.

Speaker, with another life, singled to right and Engle scored the tieing
run. The Giants still had a chance, but a feeble one, for Yerkes was on
third, with but one out. Gardner flied to Devore. The New York
outfielder caught the ball and made a game effort to stop the flying
Yerkes at the plate, but failed to do so, and the game was over and the
series belonged to Boston.

Yet so keen had been the struggle, so great the excitement, so wonderful
the rally of the New York club after having once given the series away,
that it was the opinion generally that the defeated were as great in
defeat as the victors were great in victory.

The scores of the games are as follows:

FIRST GAME.

BOSTON.        AB. R. H. P. A. E.    NEW YORK.      AB. R. H. P. A. E.
Hooper, r.f.    3  1  1  1  0  0   Devore, l.f.      3  1  0  0  0  0
Yerkes, 2b      4  0  1  0  1  0   Doyle, 2b         4  1  2  2  7  0
Speaker, c.f    3  1  1  0  1  0   Snodgrass, c.f.   4  0  1  2  0  0
Lewis, l.f.     4  0  0  2  0  0   Murray, r.f.      3  0  1  1  0  0
Gardner, 3b     4  0  0  1  1  0   Merkle, 1b        3  1  1 12  0  0
Stahl, 1b       4  0  0  6  1  0   Herzog, 3b        4  0  2  1  1  0
Wagner, ss      3  1  2  5  3  1   Meyers, c         3  0  1  6  1  0
Cady, c         3  0  1 11  1  0   Fletcher, ss      4  0  0  3  1  1
Wood, p         3  1  0  1  1  0   Tesreau, p        2  0  0  0  2  0
                                   McCormick[1]      1  0  0  0  0  0
                                   Crandall, p       1  0  0  0  1  0
                                   Becker[2]         0  0  0  0  0  0
               -- -- -- -- -- --                    -- -- -- -- -- --
Totals         31  4  6 27  9  1   Totals           33  3  8 27 13  1

1: McCormick batted for Tesreau in the seventh inning.
2: Becker ran for Meyers in ninth inning.

Boston         0  0  0  0  0  1  3  0  0  0-4
New York       0  0  2  0  0  0  0  0  0  1-3

Sacrifice hits--Hooper, Cady. Two-base hits--Hooper, Wagner, Doyle.
Three-base hit--Speaker. Double play--Stahl and Wood. Pitching
record--Off Tesreau, 5 hits and 4 runs in 25 times at bat in 7 innings;
off Crandall, 1 hit, 0 runs in 6 times at bat in 2 innings. Struck
out--By Wood 11, Devore, Snodgrass, Merkle, Herzog, Meyers, Fletcher 3,
Tesreau 2, Crandall; by Tesreau 4, Hooper, Speaker, Stahl, Gardner; by
Crandall 2, Stahl, Gardner. Bases on balls--By Wood 2, Devore, Murray;
by Tesreau 4, Hooper, Speaker, Wagner, Wood. First base on
errors--Boston 1, New York 1. Fumbles--Wagner, Fletcher. Hit by pitched
ball--By Wood, Meyers. Left on bases--Boston 6, New York 6.
Umpires--Klem and Evans; field umpires--Rigler and O'Loughlin.
Scorers--Richter and Spink. Time of game--2.10. Weather--Clear and warm.

SECOND GAME.

NEW YORK.          AB. R. H. P. A. E.    BOSTON.    AB. R. H. P. A. E.
Snodgrass, l.f-r.f  4  1  1  0  0  0   Hooper, r.f.  5  1  3  3  0  0
Doyle, 2b           5  0  1  2  5  0   Yerkes, 2b    5  1  1  3  4  0
Becker, c.f.        4  1  0  0  1  0   Speaker, c.f. 5  2  2  2  0  0
Murray, r.f-l.f     5  2  3  3  0  0   Lewis, l.f.   5  2  2  2  0  1
Merkle, 1b          5  1  1 19  0  1   Gardner, 3b   4  0  0  2  0  0
Herzog, 3b          4  1  3  2  4  0   Stahl, 1b     5  2  2 10  0  0
Meyers, c           4  0  2  5  0  0   Wagner, ss    5  0  0  5  5  5
Fletcher, ss        4  0  0  1  3  3   Carrigan, c   5  0  0  6  4  0
McCormick[1]        0  0  0  0  0  0   Collins, p    3  0  0  0  1  0
Mathewson, p        5  0  0  1  6  0   Hall, p       1  0  0  0  0  0
Shafer[2], ss       0  0  0  0  3  0   Bedient, p    1  0  0  0  0  0
Wilson[3], c        0  0  0  0  1  1
                   -- -- -- -- -- --                -- -- -- -- -- --
Totals             40  6 11 33 23  5    Totals      44  6 10 33 14  1

1: McCormick batted for Fletcher in tenth inning. 2: Shafer ran for
Meyers in tenth inning and succeeded Fletcher as shortstop in same
inning. 3: Wilson succeeded Meyers as catcher in tenth inning.

New York       0  1  0  1  0  0  0  3  0  1  0-6
Boston         3  0  0  0  1  0  0  1  0  1  0-8

Left on bases--New York 9, Boston 6. First base on errors--New York 1,
Boston 3. Two-base hits--Snodgrass, Murray, Herzog, Lewis 2, Hooper.
Three-base hits--Murray, Merkle. Herzog, Yerkes, Speaker. Stolen
bases--Snodgrass, Herzog, Hooper 2, Stahl. Sacrifice hit--Gardner.
Sacrifice flies--Herzog, McCormick. Double play--Fletcher and Herzog.
Pitching record--Off Collins, 9 hits and 3 runs in 30 times at bat in
7-1/3 innings; off Hall, 2 hits and 3 runs in 9 times at bat in 2-2/3
innings; off Bedient, no hits or runs in 1 time at bat in 1 inning.
Struck out--By Mathewson 4, Stahl, Collins 2, Wagner; by Collins 6,
Doyle, Merkle, Mathewson 2, Snodgrass; by Bedient 1, Doyle. Bases on
balls--By Hall 4, Snodgrass, Doyle, Becker, Meyers; by Bedient 1,
Becker. Fumbles--Fletcher 2. Muffed flies--Fletcher, Lewis. Muffed foul
fly--Merkle. Muffed thrown ball--Wilson. Hit by pitcher--By Bedient,
Snodgrass. Umpires--O'Loughlin and Rigler; field umpires--Klem and
Evans. Scorers--Richter and Spink. Time of game--2.38. Weather--Cool and
cloudy.

THIRD GAME.

NEW YORK.       AB. R. H. P. A. E.    BOSTON.       AB. R. H. P. A. E.
Devore, 1.f.     4  0  2  2  0  0   Hooper, r.f.     3  0  0  1  0  0
Doyle, 2b        3  0  0  3  1  0   Yerkes, 2b       4  0  1  3  1  0
Snodgrass, c.f.  4  0  1  0  0  0   Speaker, c.f.    4  0  1  3  1  0
Murray, l.f.     4  1  1  5  0  0   Lewis, l.f.      4  1  2  4  0  0
Merkle, 1b       3  0  0  5  0  1   Gardner, 3b      3  0  1  0  2  0
Herzog, 3b       2  1  1  1  3  0   Stahl, 1b        4  0  2 11  1  0
Meyers, c        4  0  1  8  1  0   Wagner, ss       4  0  0  1  3  0
Fletcher, ss     3  0  1  3  2  0   Carrigan, c      2  0  0  3  1  0
Marquard, p      1  0  0  0  2  0   Engle[1]         1  0  0  0  0  0
                                    O'Brien, p       2  0  0  1  5  0
                                    Ball[2]          1  0  0  0  0  0
                                    Cady, c          1  0  0  0  1  0
                                    Bedient, p       0  0  0  0  0  0
                                    Henriksen[3]     0  0  0  0  0  0
                -- -- -- -- -- --                   -- -- -- -- -- --
Totals          28  2  7 27  9  1     Totals        31  1  7 27 15  0

1: Engle batted for Carrigan in eighth inning. 2: Ball batted for
O'Brien in eighth inning. 3: Henriksen ran for Stahl in ninth inning.

New York       0  1  0  0  1  0  0  0  0-2
Boston         0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  1-1

Left on bases--New York 6, Boston 7. First base on errors--Boston 1.
Two-base hits--Murray, Herzog, Stahl, Gardner. Stolen bases--Devore,
Fletcher, Wagner. Sacrifice hits--Merkle, Marquard, Gardner. Sacrifice
fly--Herzog. Double play--Speaker and Stahl. Pitching record--Off
O'Brien, 6 hints and 2 runs in 26 times at bat in 8 innings; off
Bedient, 1 hit and 0 runs in 2 times at bat in 1 inning. Struck out--By
Marquard 6, Hooper, Yerkes, Wagner, O'Brien 2, Ball; by O'Brien 3,
Devore, Merkle, Meyers. Bases on balls--O'Brien 3, Fletcher, Doyle,
Marquard; by Marquard 1, Hooper. Muffed thrown ball--Merkle. Hit by
pitcher--By Bedient, Herzog. Umpires--Evans and Klem; field umpires--
O'Loughlin and Rigler. Scorers--Richter and Spink. Time of game--2.16.
Weather--Clear and cool.

FOURTH GAME.

BOSTON.       AB. R. H. P. A. E.      NEW YORK.     AB. R. H. P. A. E.
Hooper, r.f.   4  0  1  1  0  0    Devore, l.f.      4  0  1  0  0  0
Yerkes, 2b     3  0  1  2  5  0    Doyle, 2b         4  0  1  4  1  0
Speaker, c.f.  4  0  1  2  0  0    Snodgrass, c.f.   4  0  0  2  0  0
Lewis, l.f.    4  0  0  1  0  0    Murray, r.f.      4  0  1  3  0  0
Gardner, 3b    3  2  2  0  2  0    Merkle, 1b        4  0  1  8  0  0
Stahl, 1b      3  1  0  9  0  0    Herzog, 3b        4  1  2  2  1  0
Wagner, ss     3  0  0  2  3  1    Meyers, c         4  0  0  5  1  1
Cady, c        4  0  1 10  0  0    Fletcher, ss      4  0  1  3  6  0
Wood, p        4  0  2  0  2  0    Tesreau, p        2  0  1  0  2  0
                                   McCormick[1]      1  0  1  0  0  0
                                   Ames, p           0  0  0  0  1  0
              -- -- -- -- -- --                     -- -- -- -- -- --
Totals        32  3  8 27 12  1      Totals         35  1  9 27 12  1

1: McCormick batted for Tesreau in seventh inning.

Boston         0  1  0  1  0  0  0  0  1-3
New York       0  0  0  0  0  0  1  0  0-1

Left on bases--Boston 7, New York 7. First base on errors--Boston 1, New
York 1. Two-base hits--Speaker, Fletcher. Three-base hit--Gardner.
Stolen bases--Stahl, Merkle. Sacrifice hits--Yerkes, Stahl. Double
play--Fletcher and Merkle. Pitching record--Off Tesreau, 5 hits and 2
runs in 24 times at bat in 7 innings; off Ames, 3 hits and 1 run in 8
times at bat in 2 innings. Struck out--By Wood 8, Devore, Snodgrass.
Murray 2, Merkle 2, Meyers, Tesreau; by Tesreau 5, Lewis, Stahl, Wagner,
Cady 2. Bases on balls--By Tesreau 2, Hooper, Gardner; by Ames 1,
Wagner. Fumble--Wagner. Wild throw--Meyers. Wild pitch--Tesreau.
Umpires--Rigler and O'Loughlin; field umpires--Evans and Klem. Scorers--
Richter and Spink. Time of game--2.06. Weather--Cool and cloudy, and
ground heavy.

FIFTH GAME.

BOSTON.        AB. R. H. P. A. E.    NEW YORK.      AB. R. H. P. A. E.
Hooper, r.f.    4  l  2  4  0  0   Devore, l.f.      2  0  0  0  0  0
Yerkes, 2b      4  1  1  3  3  0   Doyle, 2b         4  0  0  0  3  1
Speaker, c.f.   3  0  1  3  0  0   Snodgrass, c.f.   4  0  0  2  0  0
Lewis, l.f.     3  0  0  1  0  0   Murray, r.f.      3  0  0  0  1  0
Gardner, 3b     3  0  0  3  2  1   Merkle, 1b        4  1  1 15  0  0
Stahl, 1b       3  0  0  7  0  0   Herzog, 3b        4  0  0  2  3  0
Wagner, ss      3  0  1  1  1  0   Meyers, c         3  0  1  2  0  0
Cady, c         3  0  0  5  0  0   Fletcher, ss      2  0  0  2  2  0
Bedient, p      3  0  0  0  0  0   McCormick[1]      1  0  0  0  0  0
                                   Shafer[2], ss     0  0  0  1  1  0
                                   Mathewson, p      3  0  1  0  3  0
               -- -- -- -- -- --                    -- -- -- -- -- --
Totals         29  2  5 27  6  1     Totals         30  1  3 24 13  1

1: McCormick batted for Fletcher in seventh inning. 2: Shafer ran for
McCormick in seventh inning and then played shortstop.

Boston         0  0  2  0  0  0  0  0  X--2
New York       0  0  0  0  0  0  1  0  0--1

Left on bases--New York 5, Boston 3. First base on errors--New York 1,
Boston 1. Two-base hit--Merkle. Three-base hits--Hooper, Yerkes. Double
play--Wagner, Yerkes and Stahl. Struck out--By Mathewson 2, Gardner,
Wagner; by Bedient 4, Devore, Snodgrass, Merkle, Mathewson. Bases on
balls--By Bedient 3, Devore 2, Murray. Fumbles--Doyle, Gardner.
Umpires--O'Loughlin and Rigler; field umpires--Klem and Evans.
Scorers--Richter and Spink. Time of game--1.43. Weather--Warm and
cloudy.

SIXTH GAME.

NEW YORK.      AB. R. H. P. A. E.      BOSTON.      AB. R. H. P. A. E.
Devore, l.f.    4  0  1  2  0  1    Hooper, r.f.     4  0  1  2  2  0
Doyle, 2b       4  1  1  1  1  0    Yerkes, 2b       4  0  2  3  1  1
Snodgrass, c.f. 4  0  1  6  0  0    Speaker, c.f.    3  0  0  5  0  0
Murray, r.f.    3  1  2  7  0  0    Lewis, l.f.      4  0  0  0  0  0
Merkle, 1b      3  1  2  4  1  0    Gardner, 3b      4  1  0  0  1  0
Herzog, 3b      3  1  1  1  1  0    Stahl, 1b        4  1  2  8  0  0
Meyers, c       3  1  2  6  0  0    Wagner, 3b       4  0  0  3  0  0
Fletcher, ss    3  0  1  0  2  0    Cady, c          3  0  1  3  2  1
Marquard, p     3  0  0  0  2  1    O'Brien, p       0  0  0  0  1  0
                                    Engle[1]         1  0  1  0  0  0
                                    Collins, p       2  0  0  0  2  0
               -- -- -- -- -- --                    -- -- -- -- -- --
Totals         30  5 11 27  7  2      Totals        33  2  7 24  9  2

1: Engle batted for O'Brien in second inning.

New York       5  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  X--5
Boston         0  2  0  0  0  0  0  0  0--2

Left on bases--Boston 5, New York 1. First base on errors--Boston 1.
Two-base hits--Engle, Merkle, Herzog. Three-base hit--Meyers. Stolen
bases--Speaker, Doyle, Herzog, Meyers. Double plays--Fletcher, Doyle and
Merkle; Hooper and Stahl. Pitching record--Off O'Brien, 6 hits and 5
runs in 8 times at bat in 1 inning; off Collins, 5 hits and 0 runs in 22
times at bat in 7 innings. Struck out--By Marquard 3, Wagner, Gardner,
Stahl; by O'Brien 1, Snodgrass; by Collins 1, Devore. Base on balls--By
Marquard, Speaker. Fumble--Devore. Wild throw--Marquard. Muffed foul
fly--Cady. Balk--O'Brien. Wild throw--Yerkes. Time of game--1.58.
Umpires--Klem and Evans; field umpires--O'Loughlin and Rigler.
Scorers--Richter and Spink. Weather--Warm and cloudy.

SEVENTH GAME.

NEW YORK.         AB. R. H. P. A. E.  BOSTON.       AB. R. H. P. A. E.
Devore, r.f.       4  2  1  3  1  1   Hooper, r.h.   3  0  1  1  1  0
Doyle, 2b          4  3  3  2  3  2   Yerkes, 2b     4  0  0  1  4  0
Snodgrass, c.f.    5  1  2  1  0  0   Speaker, c.f.  4  1  1  4  0  1
Murray, l.f.       4  0  0  1  0  0   Lewis, l.f.    4  1  1  3  0  0
Merkle, 1b         5  1  2 10  0  1   Gardner, 3b    4  1  1  2  0  1
Herzog, 3b         4  2  1  0  2  0   Stahl, 1b      5  0  1 11  1  0
Meyers, c          4  1  3  6  0  0   Wagner, ss     5  0  1  4  4  0
Wilson, c[1]       1  0  1  2  0  0   Cady, c        4  1  0  1  2  0
Fletcher, ss       5  1  1  2  4  0   Wood, p        0  0  0  0  1  0
Tesreau, p         4  0  2  0  6  0   Happ, p        3  0  3  0  5  1
                  -- -- -- -- -- --                 -- -- -- -- -- --
Totals            40 11 16 27 16  4    Totals       36  4  9  27 18  3

1: Wilson relieved Meyers in eighth inning.

New York       6  1  0  0  0  2  1  0  1--11
Boston         0  1  0  0  0  0  2  1  0-- 4

Left on bases--New York 8, Boston 12. First base on errors--Boston 1.
Stolen bases--Devore 2, Doyle. Sacrifice hit--Murray. Sacrifice
fly--Hooper. Two-base hits--Snodgrass, Hall, Lewis. Home runs--Doyle,
Gardner. Double plays--Devore and Meyers; Speaker, unassisted. Pitching
record--Off Wood, 7 hits and 6 runs in 8 times at bat in 1 inning; off
Hall, 9 hits and 5 runs in 32 times at bat in 8 innings. Struck out--By
Tesreau 6, Hooper 2, Yerkes, Gardner, Wagner, Cady; by Hall 1, Herzog.
Bases on balls--By Tesreau 5, Hooper, Yerkes, Speaker, Lewis, Hall; by
Hall 5, Devore 2, Doyle, Herzog, Tesreau. Fumbles--Doyle, Devore. Muffed
thrown ball--Gardner. Wild throws--Merkle, Hall, Speaker. Muffed
fly--Doyle. Wild pitches--Tesreau 2. Hit by pitched ball--By Tesreau,
Gardner. Time of game--2.21. Umpires--Evans and Klem; field
umpires--O'Loughlin and Rigler. Scorers--Richter and Spink.
Weather--Cold and windy.

EIGHTH GAME.

BOSTON.          AB. R. H. P. A. E.    NEW YORK.    AB. R. H. P. A. E.
Hooper, r.f.      5  0  0  3  0  0   Devore, r.f.    3  1  1  3  1  0
Yerkes, 2b        4  1  1  0  3  0   Doyle, 2b       5  0  0  1  5  1
Speaker, c.f.     4  0  2  2  0  1   Snodgrass, c.f. 4  0  1  4  1  1
Lewis, l.f.       4  0  0  1  0  0   Murray, l.f.    5  1  2  3  0  0
Gardner, 3b       3  0  1  1  4  2   Merkle, 1b      5  0  1 10  0  0
Stahl, 1b         4  1  2 15  0  1   Herzog, 3b      5  0  2  2  1  0
Wagner, ss        3  0  1  3  5  1   Meyers, c       3  0  0  4  1  0
Cady, c           4  0  0  5  3  0   Fletcher, ss    3  0  1  2  3  0
Bedient, p        2  0  0  0  1  0   McCormick[1]    1  0  0  0  0  0
Henriksen[2]      1  0  1  0  0  0   Mathewson, p    4  0  1  0  3  0
Wood, p           0  0  0  0  2  0   Shafer[3], ss   0  0  0  0  0  0
Engle[4]          1  1  0  0  0  0
                 -- -- -- -- -- --                  -- -- -- -- -- --
Totals           35  3  8 30 18  5     Totals       38  2  9*29 15 2

*: Two out in tenth inning when winning run was scored.

1: McCormick batted for Fletcher in ninth inning. 2: Henriksen batted
for Bedient in seventh inning. 3: Shafer player shortstop in tenth
inning. 4: Engle batted for Wood in tenth inning.

Boston         0  0  0  0  0  0  1  0  0  2--3
New York       0  0  1  0  0  0  0  0  0  1--2

Left on bases--New York 11, Boston 9. First base on errors--New York 1,
Boston 1. Two-base hits--Murray 2, Herzog, Gardner, Stahl, Henriksen.
Sacrifice hit--Meyers. Sacrifice fly--Gardner. Stolen base--Devore.
Pitching record--Off Bedient, 6 hits and 1 run in 26 times at bat in 7
innings; off Wood, 3 hits and 1 run in 12 times at bat in 3 innings.
Struck out--By Mathewson 4, Yerkes, Speaker, Lewis, Stahl; by Bedient 2,
Merkle, Fletcher; by Wood 2, Mathewson, Herzog. Bases on balls--By
Mathewson 5, Yerkes, Speaker, Lewis, Gardner, Wagner; by Bedient 3,
Devore, Snodgrass, Meyers; by Wood 1, Devore. Muffed fly--Snodgrass.
Muffed foul fly--Stahl. Muffed thrown balls--Doyle, Wagner, Gardner.
Fumbles--Speaker, Gardner. Time of game--2.39. Umpires--O'Loughlin and
Rigler; field umpires--Klem and Evans. Scorers--Richter and Spink.
Weather--Clear and cold.

THE COMPOSITE SCORE.

Following is a composite score of the eight games played, thus
arranged to show at a glance the total work in every department:

BOSTON.

                               G. AB. R. H. SB. SH. PO. A. E.
Hooper........................ 8  31  3  9  2   2   16  3  ..
Yerkes........................ 8  32  3  8  ..  1   15  22 1
Speaker....................... 8  30  4  9  1   ..  21  2  2
Lewis......................... 8  32  4  5  ..  ..  14  .. 1
Gardner....................... 8  28  4  5  ..  3   9   12 4
Stahl......................... 8  32  3  9  2   1   77  3  1
Wagner........................ 8  30  1  5  1   ..  24  24 3
Cady.......................... 7  22  1  3  ..  1   35  9  1
Wood.......................... 4  7   1  2  ..  ..  1   6  ..
Carrigan...................... 2  7   .. .. ..  ..  9   5  ..
Collins....................... 2  5   .. .. ..  ..  ..  3  ..
Hall.......................... 2  4   .. 3  ..  ..  ..  5  1
Bedient....................... 4  6   .. .. ..  ..  ..  1  ..
[1]Engle...................... 3  3   1  1  ..  ..  ..  .. ..
O'Brien....................... 2  2   .. .. ..  ..  1   6  ..
[2]Ball....................... 1  1   .. .. ..  ..  ..  .. ..
[3]Henriksen.................. 2  1   .. 1  ..  ..  ..  .. ..
                                 --   -- -- --  --  --  -- --
                                273   25 60 6   8  222 101 14

NEW YORK.

                               G. AB. R. H. SB. SH. PO. A. E.
Devore........................ 7  24  4  6  4   ..  10  2  2
Doyle......................... 8  33  5  8  2   ..  15  26 4
Snodgrass..................... 8  33  2  7  1   ..  17  1  1
Murray........................ 8  31  5 10 ..    1  23  1  ..
Merkle........................ 8  33  5  9  1    1  83  1  3
Herzog........................ 8  30  6 12  2    2  11  16 ..
[4]Becker..................... 2   4  1 .. ..   ..  ..  1  ..
Meyers........................ 8  28  2 10  1    1  42  4  1
Fletcher...................... 8  28  1  5  1   ..  16  23 4
Wilson........................ 3   1 ..  1 ..   ..   2  1  1
Shafer........................ 3  .. .. .. ..   ..   1  4  ..
Tesreau....................... 3   8 ..  3 ..   ..  ..  10 ..
[5]McCormick.................. 5   4 ..  1 ..    1  ..  .. ..
Crandall...................... 1   1 .. .. ..   ..  ..  1  ..
Mathewson..................... 3  12 ..  2 ..   ..   2  12 ..
Marquard...................... 2   4 .. .. ..    1  ..  4  1
Ames.......................... 1  .. .. .. ..   ..  ..  1  ..
                                 --- -- -- --   --  --  --  --
                                 274 31 74 12   7[6]22l 108 17

1: Engle batted for Carrigan in eighth inning of third game; for O'Brien
in second inning of sixth game, and for Wood in tenth inning of eighth
game.

2: Ball batted for O'Brien in eighth inning of third game.

3: Henriksen ran for Stahl in ninth inning of third game; and batted for
Bedient in seventh inning of eighth game.

4: McCormick batted for Tesreau in seventh inning of first game; for
Fletcher in tenth inning of second game; for Tesreau in seventh inning
of fourth game; for Fletcher in seventh inning of fifth game; and for
Fletcher in ninth inning of eighth game.

5: Becker ran for Meyers in ninth inning of first game.

6: Two out in tenth inning of eighth game when winning run scored.

           1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9 10 11  Tl.
Boston     3  4  2  1  1  1  6  2  2  3  0--25
New York  11  3  3  1  1  2  3  3  2  2  0--31

Left on bases--Boston 55, New York 53.

Two-base hits--Boston: Lewis 3, Gardner 2, Stahl 2, Hooper 2, Henriksen
1, Hall 1, Engle 1, Speaker 1, Wagner 1; total 14. New York: Murray 4,
Herzog 4, Snodgrass 2, Merkle 2, Fletcher 1, Doyle 1; total 14.

Three-base hits--Boston: Speaker 2, Yerkes 2, Gardner 1, Hooper 1; total
6. New York: Murray 1, Merkle 1, Herzog 1, Meyers 1; total 4.

Home runs--Boston: Gardner 1. New York: Doyle 1.

Double plays--For Boston: Stahl and Wood 1; Speaker and Stahl 1; Wagner,
Yerkes and Stahl 1; Hooper and Stahl 1; Speaker 1 (unassisted). For New
York: Fletcher and Herzog 1; Fletcher and Merkle 1; Fletcher, Doyle and
Merkle 1; Devore and Meyers 1.

Struck out by Boston pitchers--By Wood: Merkle 3, Tesreau 3, Fletcher 3,
Devore 2, Snodgrass 2, Herzog 2, Meyers 2, Murray 2, Crandall 1,
Mathewson 1, total 21. By Collins: Doyle 1, Merkle 1, Snodgrass 1,
Devore 1, Mathewson 2; total 6. By Bedient: Doyle 1, Devore 1, Snodgrass
1, Mathewson 1, Fletcher 1, Merkle 2; total 7. By O'Brien: Devore 1,
Merkle 1, Meyers 1, Snodgrass 1; total 4. By Hall: Herzog 1; total 1.
Grand total 39.

Struck out by New York pitchers--By Tesreau: Hooper 3, Cady 3, Stahl 2,
Gardner 2, Wagner 2. Speaker 1, Yerkes 1, Lewis 1; total 15. By
Mathewson: Stahl 2, Collins 2, Wagner 2, Gardner 1, Yerkes 1, Speaker 1,
Lewis 1; total 10. By Marquard: Wagner 2, O'Brien 2, Hooper 1, Yerkes 1,
Ball 1, Gardner 1, Stahl 1; total 9. By Crandall: Stahl 1, Gardner 1;
total 2. Grand total 36.

Bases on balls off Boston pitchers--Off Wood: Devore 2, Murray 1; total
3. Off Hall: Doyle 2, Devore 2, Snodgrass 1, Becker 1. Meyers 1, Tesreau
1, Herzog 1; total 9. Off Bedient: Devore 3, Becker 1, Murray 1,
Snodgrass 1, Meyers 1; total 7. Off O'Brien: Fletcher 1, Doyle 1.
Marquard 1; total 3. Grand total 22.

Bases on balls off New York pitchers--Off Tesreau: Hooper 3, Speaker 2,
Wagner 1, Wood 1, Gardner 1, Yerkes 1, Lewis 1, Hall 1: total 11. Off
Marquard: Hooper 1, Speaker 1; total 2. Off Ames: Wagner 1; total 1. Off
Mathewson: Yerkes 1, Speaker 1, Lewis 1, Gardner 1, Wagner 1; total 6.
Grand total 19.

Relief pitchers' records--Off Tesreau, 5 hits, 4 runs, in 25 times at
bat in 7 innings; off Crandall, 1 hit, 0 runs, in 6 times at bat in 2
innings in game of October 8. Off Collins, 9 hits. 3 runs, in 30 times
at bat in 7-1/3 innings: off Hall, 2 hits, 3 runs, in 9 times at bat in
2-2/3 innings; off Bedient, 0 hits, 0 runs, in 1 time at bat in 1
inning, in game of October 9; off O'Brien, 6 hits, 2 runs, in 26 times
at bat in 8 innings; off Bedient, 1 hit, 0 runs, in 2 times at bat in 1
inning, in game of October 10. Off Tesreau, 5 hits, 2 runs, in 24 times
at bat in 7 innings; off Ames, 3 hits, 1 run, in 8 times at bat in 2
innings, in game of October 11. Off O'Brien, 8 hits, 5 runs, in 8 times
at bat in 1 inning; off Collins, 5 hits, 0 runs, in 22 times at bat in 7
innings, in game of October 14. Off Wood, 7 hits, 6 runs, in 8 times at
bat in 1 inning; off Hall, 9 hits. 5 rung, in 32 times at bat in 8
innings, in game of October 15. Off Bedient, 6 hits, 1 run, in 26 times
at bat in 7 innings; off Wood, 3 hits, 1 runs, in 12 times at bat in 3
innings, in game of October 16.

Wild pitches--Tesreau 3.

Balk--O'Brien 1.

Muffed fly Balls--Fletcher 1, Lewis 1. Doyle 1, Snodgrass 1; total 4.

Muffed foul fly--Merkle 1, Cady 1, Stahl 1; total 3.

Muffed thrown balls--Wilson 1, Merkle 1, Gardner 2, Doyle 1, Wagner 1;
total 6.

Wild throws--Meyers 1, Marquard 1, Yerkes 1, Merkle 1, Hall 1, Speaker
1; total 6.

Fumbles--Wagner 2, Fletcher 3, Doyle 2, Gardner 2, Devore 2, Speaker 1;
total 12.

First base on errors--Boston 11, New York 5.

Sacrifice flies--Herzog 2, McCormick 1, Hooper 1, Gardner 1; total 5.

Hit by pitcher--By Bedient: Snodgrass 1, Herzog 1. By Wood: Meyers. By
Tesreau: Gardner.

Umpires--Evans and O'Loughlin, of the American League; Klem and Rigler,
of the National League.

Official scorers--Francis C. Richter of Philadelphia, and J. Taylor
Spink of St. Louis, all games.

Average time--2.13 7-8.

Average attendance--3l,505.

Weather--Clear and cool.

INDIVIDUAL BATTING AVERAGES.

Following are the official batting averages of all players participating
in the World's Championship Series of 1912. They show that New York
clearly outhit Boston. The team average of the Giants was 50 points
higher than that of Boston. The Boston team had only four batters in the
.300 class, while New York had five. Of the men who played all through
the series, Herzog was high with .400. The figures are:

INDIVIDUAL BOSTON BATTING.

            G.   AB.   R.   H.   SB.   SH.   PC.
Henriksen    2     1   --    1   --    --   1000
Hall         2     4   --    3   --    --   .750
Engle        3     3    1    1   --    --   .333
Speaker      8    30    4    9    1    --   .300
Hooper       8    31    3    9    2     2   .290
Wood         4     7    1    2   --    --   .286
Stahl        8    32    3    9    2     1   .281
Yerkes       8    32    3    8   --     1   .250
Gardner      8    28    4    5   --     3   .179
Wagner       8    30    1    5    1    --   .167
Lewis        8    32    4    5   --    --   .156
Cady         7    22    1    3   --     1   .136
Carrigan     2     7   --   --   --    --   .000
Collins      2     5   --   --   --    --   .000
Bedient      4     6   --   --   --    --   .000
O'Brien      2     2   --   --   --    --   .000
Ball         1     1   --   --   --    --   .000

INDIVIDUAL NEW YORK BATTING.

            G.   AB.   R.   H.   SB.   SH.   PC.
Wilson       2     1   --    1   --    --   1000
Herzog       8    30    6   12    2     2   .400
Tesreau      3     8   --    3   --    --   .375
Meyers       8    28    2   10    1     1   .357
Murray       8    31    5   10   --     1   .323
Merkle       8    33    5    9    1     1   .273
Devore       7    24    4    6    4    --   .250
McCormick    5     4   --    1   --     1   .250
Doyle        8    33    5    8    2    --   .242
Snodgrass    8    33    2    7    1    --   .212
Fletcher     8    28    1    5    1    --   .179
Mathewson    3    12   --    2   --    --   .167
Becker       2     4    1   --   --    --   .000
Shafer       3    --   --   --   --    --   .000
Crandall     1     1   --   --   --    --   .000
Marquard     2     4   --   --   --    --   .000
Ames         1    --   --   --   --    --   .000

Team batting average: New York, .270; Boston, .220.

INDIVIDUAL FIELDING AVERAGES.

The individual and team fielding averages show Boston leading by a
slight margin of .958 to .951. The figures follow:

                              CATCHERS.
            G. PO. A. PB. E. PC. |            G. PO. A. PB. E. PC.
Carrigan    2   9  5         1000|Cady        7  35  9      1  .978
Meyers      8  42  4       1 .979|Wilson      2   2  1      1  .750

                                PITCHERS.
                G. PO. A. E. PC. |                G. PO. A. E. PC.
Tesreau         3     10     1000|Collins         2      3     1000
Crandall        1      1     1000|Bedient         4      1     1000
Mathewson       4  1  12     1000|O'Brien         2  1   6     1000
Wood            4  1   6     1000|Hall            2      5  1  .833
Ames            1      1     1000|Marquard        2      4  1  .800

                              FIRST BASEMEN.
Stahl       8  77  3   1     .988|Merkle          8 83   1  3  .966

                             SECOND BASEMEN.
Yerkes      8  15 22   1     .974|Doyle           8 15  26  4  .911

                              SHORTSTOPS.
Shafer          3  1   4     1000|Fletcher        8 16  23  4  .907
Wagner          8 24  24  3  .941

                             THIRD BASEMEN.
Herzog          8 11  16     1000|Gardner         8  9  12  4  .840

                              OUTFIELDERS.
Murray          8 23   1     1000|Lewis           8 14      1  .933
Becker          1      1     1000|Speaker         8 21   2  2  .920
Hooper          8 16   3     1000|Devore          7 10   2  2  .857
Snodgrass       8 17   1  1  .947|

Team fielding average: Boston, .958; New York, .951.

THE PITCHERS' RECORDS.

The pitching averages show Marquad and Bedient the only pitchers with
clean records. Marquad won two games and did not meet defeat, and
Bedient won one without a defeat. Wood won three and lost one. Following
are the figures:

              G.  W.  L.  T. TO.    PC. H.  BB.  HB.  SO.  IP.    AB.

Bedient       4   1       1   1   1000  10   7    2    7   17      59
Marquard      2   2               1000  14   2         9   18      66
Wood          4   3   1       1   .750  27   3    1   21   22      88
Tesreau       3   1   2       2   .333  19  11    1   15   23      85
Collins       2           1   1   .000  14             6   14-1/3  52
Hall          2           1   1   .000  11   9         1   10-2/3  41
Mathewson     3       2   1       .000  23   5        10   29-2/3 108
Ames          1                   .000   3   1              2       8
Crandall      1                   .000   1             2    2       6
O'Brien       2       2       2   .000  12   3         4    9      34

Wild pitches--Tesreau 3.

Wiltse, Ames, Hall and Crandall did not pitch a full game and are
charged with neither defeat nor victory. Tesreau pitched first 7 innings
of first game and is charged with defeat. Crandall finished game.
Collins pitched first 7-1/3 innings of second game, Hall followed for
2-2/3 innings and Bedient for 1 inning, but as game was tie no one has
defeat or victory charged against him. O'Brien pitched 8 innings of
third game and is charged with defeat. Bedient pitched in the last
inning. In fourth game Tesreau pitched first 7 innings and is marked
with defeat. Ames finished the game. In sixth game O'Brien pitched only
1 inning, but lost the game. Collins completed the game. Wood pitched
only one inning of seventh game and is charged with a defeat. Hall
pitched the last 8 innings. Bedient pitched first 7 innings of eighth
game and retired to permit Henriksen to bat for him with New York
leading. Boston then tied score and Wood, who succeeded Bedient, finally
won out in the tenth inning, Wood getting credit for game.

FINANCIAL RESULT.

The attendance and receipts of the 1912 World's Championship Series were
the highest of any series ever played, excelling even the receipts of
the 1911 Athletic-Giant series, which reached proportions of such
magnitude that it was thought they would not soon be exceeded, or even
equaled. In the 1911 Athletic-Giant series the total attendance was
179,851 paid; the receipts, $342,364; each club's share, $90,108.72;
National Commission's share, $34,236.25; the players' share for four
days, $127,910.61; each player's share on the Athletic team, $3,654.58;
and each player's share on the New York team, $2,436.30. For purposes of
comparison we give the official statement of the 1911 World's Series:

                                   Attendance.    Receipts.
First game, New York................ 38,281       $77,359.00
Second game, Philadelphia........... 26,286        42,962.50
Third game, New York................ 37,216        75,593.00
Fourth game, Philadelphia........... 24,355        40,957.00
Fifth game, New York................ 33,228        69.384.00
Sixth game, Philadelphia............ 20,485        36,109.00
                                  ---------    -------------
Totals ............................ 179,851      $342,364.50


Each club's share................................ $90,108.72
National Commission's share....................... 34,236.25
Players' share for four games................     127,910.61


Herewith is given the official attendance and receipts of the Giant-Red
Sox world's Series of 1912, together with the division of the receipts,
as announced by the National Commission. The players shared only in the
first four games, divided 60 percent, to the winning team and 40 per
cent, to the losing team.

                                    Attendance.    Receipts.
First game, New York................ 35,722       $75,127.00
Second game, Boston................. 30,148        58,369.00
Third game, Boston.................. 34,624        63,142.00
Fourth game, New York............... 36,502        76,644.00
Fifth game, Boston.................. 34,683        63,201.00
Sixth game, New York................ 30,622        66,654.00
Seventh game, Boston................ 32,630        57,004.00
Eighth game, Boston ................ 16,970        30,308.00
                                  ---------    -------------
Totals............................. 251,901      $490,449.00


Each club's share............................... $146,915.91
National Commission's share....................... 49,044.90
Players' share for four games.................... 147,572.28




NATIONAL LEAGUE SEASON OF 1912

BY JOHN B. FOSTER.


Spurts of energy on the part of different clubs, unexpected ill fortune
on the part of others, and marked variations of form, which ranged from
the leaders almost to the lowliest teams of the second division,
injected spasmodic moments of excited interest into the National League
race for 1912 and marked it by more vicissitudes than any of its
immediate predecessors.

By careful analysis it is not a difficult matter to ascertain why the
New Yorks won. Their speed as a run-getting machine was much superior to
that of any of their opponents. Every factor of Base Ball which can be
studied demonstrates that fact. They led the National League in batting
and they led it in base running. They were keenly alive to the
opportunities which were offered to them to win games. Indeed, their
fall from the high standard which they had set prior to the Fourth of
July was quite wholly due to the fact that they failed to take advantage
of the situations daily, as they had earlier in the season, and their
return to that winning form later in the season, which assured them of
the championship, was equally due to the fact that they had regained
their ability to make the one run which was necessary to win. That,
after all, is the vital essential of Base Ball. To earn the winning run,
not by hook or crook, but to earn it by excelling opponents through
superior play in a department where the opponents are weak, is the story
of capturing a pennant.

They were dangerous men to be permitted to get on bases, and their
dearest and most bitter enemies on the ball field, with marked candor,
confessed that such was the case. Opposing leaders admitted that when
two or three of the New York players were started toward home plate one
or two of them were likely to cross the plate and that, too, when one
run might tie the score and two runs might win the game.

While there were some who were quite sanguine before the beginning of
the season that the Giants would win the championship, there were others
who were convinced that they would have a hard time to hold their title,
and after the season was over both factions were fairly well satisfied
with their preliminary forecast.

The runaway race which New York made up to the Fourth of July gave
abundant satisfaction to those who said they would win, and the setback
which the team received after the Fourth of July until the latter part
of August afforded solace to those who were certain in their own minds
that the New Yorks would have much trouble to repeat their victory of
1911.

It must not be forgotten, too, that the New York team had the benefit of
excellent pitching throughout the year. In the new record for pitchers,
which has been established this season by Secretary Heydler of the
National League, and which in part was the outcome of the agitation in
the GUIDE for a new method of records, in which the various Base Ball
critics of the major league cities so ably contributed their opinions,
Tesreau leads all the pitchers in the matter of runs which were earned
from his delivery. Mathewson is second, Ames is fifth, Marquard seventh
and Wiltse and Crandall lower, and while both the latter were hit freely
in games in which they were occasionally substituted for others, they
pitched admirably in games which they won on their own account.

In the opinion of the writer this new method, which has been put into
usage by Secretary Heydler, is far superior to anything which has been
offered in years as a valuable record of the actual work of pitchers. It
holds the pitcher responsible for every run which is made from his
delivery. It does not hold him responsible for any runs which may have
been made after the opportunity has been offered to retire the side, nor
does it hold him responsible for runs which are the result of the
fielding errors of his fellow players. On the other hand, if he gives
bases on balls, if he is batted for base hits, if he makes balks, and if
he makes wild pitches, he must stand for his blunders and have all such
runs charged against him as earned runs.

Nothing proves more conclusively the strength of this manner of
compiling pitchers' records than that Rucker, by the old system, dropped
to twenty-eighth place in the list of National League pitchers, finished
third in the earned run computation, showing that if he had been given
proper support he probably would have been one of the topmost pitchers
of the league, even on the basis of percentage of games won, which is
more vainglorious than absolutely truthful.

The Giants are to be commended for playing clean, sportsmanlike Base
Ball. There were less than a half dozen instances in which they came
into conflict with the umpires. The president of the National League
complimented Manager McGraw in public upon the excellent conduct of his
team upon the field and the players deserved the approbation of the
league's chief executive.

       *       *       *       *       *

The general work of the Pittsburgh team throughout the year was good. It
must have been good to have enabled the players to finish second in the
championship contest, but the team, speaking in the broadest sense,
seemed to be just good enough not to win the championship. As one man
dryly but graphically put it: "Pittsburgh makes me think of a wedding
cake without the frosting."

Fred. Clarke, manager of the team, adhered resolutely to his
determination not to play. It was not for the reason that the impulse to
play did not seize upon him more than once, but he had formed a
conviction, or, at least, he seemed to have formed one, that it would be
better for the organization if the younger blood were permitted to make
the fight. It was the opinion of more than one that Clarke incorrectly
estimated his own ball playing ability, in other words, that he was a
better ball player than he credited himself with being.

As batters the Pittsburghs were successful. As fielders they were
superior to the team that won the championship. As run-getters they were
not the equal of the Giants. In brief, fewer opportunities were accepted
to make runs by a much larger percentage than was the case with the New
York club, which can easily be verified by a careful study of the scores
of the two teams as they opposed one another, and as they played against
the other clubs of the league.

It took more driving power to get the Pittsburgh players around the
bases than it did those of New York. In tight games, where the advantage
of a single run meant victory, the greater speed of the New York players
could actually be measured by yards in the difference of results.
Naturally it was not always easy for the Pittsburgh enthusiasts to see
why a team, which assuredly fielded better than the champions and batted
almost equally as well, could not gain an advantage over its rivals, but
the inability of Pittsburgh Base Ball patrons to comprehend the lack of
success on the part of their team existed in the fact that they had but
few opportunities, comparatively speaking, to watch the New York players
and found it difficult to grasp the true import of that one great factor
of speed, which had been so insistently demanded by the New York manager
of the men who were under his guidance.

Pittsburgh had an excellent pitching staff. Even better results would
have been obtained from it if Adams had been in better physical
condition. An ailing arm bothered him. While he fell below the standard
of other years, one splendid young pitcher rapidly developed in Hendrix,
and Robinson, a left-hander, with practically no major league
experience, pushed his way to a commanding position in the work which he
did.

Until the Giants made their last visit to Pittsburgh in the month of
August the western team threatened to come through with a finish, which
would give them a chance to swing into first place during the month of
September, but the series between New York and Pittsburgh turned the
scale against the latter.

Fired with the knowledge that they were at the turning point in the race
the New York players battled desperately with their rivals on
Pittsburgh's home field and won. Even the Pittsburgh players were filled
with admiration for the foe whom they had met, and while they were not
in the mood to accept defeat with equanimity, they did accept it
graciously and congratulated the victors as they left Pittsburgh after
playing the last game of the season which had been scheduled between
them on Forbes Field.

First base had long bothered Clarke. Frequent experiments had been made
to obtain a first baseman, who could play with accuracy on the field and
bat to the standard of the team generally. Clarke transferred Miller
from second base to first and the change worked well. More graceful and
more accurate first basemen have been developed than Miller, but in his
first year of play at the bag he steadied the team perceptibly and
unquestionably gave confidence to the other men.

But making a first baseman out of Miller took away a second baseman and
second base gave Clarke more or less concern all of the season. At that,
Pittsburgh was not so poorly off in second base play as some other of
the teams of the senior circuit.

       *       *       *       *       *

Two important factors contributed to the success of the Chicagos in
1912. For a few days they threatened to assume the leadership of the
National League. With the opportunity almost within their grasp the
machine, which had been patched for the moment, fell to pieces, and the
Cubs, brought to a climax in their work by all the personal magnetism
and the driving power of which Chance was capable, were exhausted by
their strongest effort. The courage and the wish were there, but the
team lacked the playing strength.

To return to the factors which contributed to the club's success. They
were the restoration to health of Evers, and a complete change in the
manner of playing second base, added to the consistent and powerful
batting of Zimmerman. The latter led the league in batting and
repeatedly pulled his club through close contests by the forceful manner
in which he met the ball with men on bases.

A third contributing force, though less continuous, was the brief spurt
which was made by the Chicago pitchers in the middle of the season. They
were strongest at the moment that the New York team was playing its
poorest game, and their temporary success assisted in pushing the
Chicagos somewhat rapidly toward the top of the league. They were not
resourceful enough nor strong enough to maintain their average of
victories and finished the season somewhat as they had begun.

The most of Chicago's success began to date from the early part of July,
when Lavender, pitching for the Cubs, won from Marquard of the Giants,
who, to that time, had nineteen successive victories to his credit.
Chicago continued to win, and the New York team made a very poor trip
through the west.

Lavender's physical strength held up well for a month and then it became
quite evident that he had pitched himself out. Then was the time that
the Chicagos could have used to good advantage two and certainly one
steady and reliable pitcher, who had been through the fire of winning
pennants and would not be disturbed by the importance which attached to
games in which his club was for the moment the runner-up in the
championship race.

Chicago managed to hold its own fairly well against the New York team.
Indeed, the Cubs beat the New Yorks on the series for the season, but
there were other clubs, Pittsburgh, St. Louis and Cincinnati, which won
from Chicago when victories were most needed by the Cubs, and their hope
to capture the pennant deserted them as they were making their last trip
through the east.

The race was not without its bright side for Chicago. Even if the Cubs
did finish third for the first time since Chance had been manager of the
organization, it was a welcome sight to see Evers apparently in as good
form as ever and Zimmerman so strong with the bat that the leadership of
the batters finally returned to Chicago after it had been absent for
years.

       *       *       *       *       *

Cincinnati, under the management of Henry O'Day, finished fourth in the
race. It was by no means a weak showing for the new manager, in view of
the team which he was compelled to handle. Until the New York club
played its first series in Cincinnati, which began May 18, the Reds were
booming along at the top of the league, apparently with no intention
that they might ever drop back. It was New York that won three out of
the five games played and took the lead in the race, and when that
happened Cincinnati never was in front again.

To the other managers, who had been watching the work of the Cincinnatis
it was apparent that sooner or later the break would have to come for
the reason that, as the season progressed, better pitching would have to
be faced by the Cincinnati club, while it was doubtful whether the
Cincinnati pitchers could do any better than they were doing. The
manager seemed to have known this, for when the break did come and the
Reds began to totter, he said in reference to their downfall that no
team could be expected to win with only ordinary pitching to assist it.

In this manner Cincinnati played through the middle of the season always
just a little behind most of its opponents. As the latter days of the
year began to dawn the Reds began to improve and not the least of which
was in the better work of the pitchers.

They did well enough to beat Philadelphia for fourth place, and while
O'Day did not have the satisfaction of finding his first year as a
manager generous enough to him to make him the runner-up for the
championship team, he actually put his club in the first division, which
is something in which many managers have failed and some of them
managers of long experience.

       *       *       *       *       *

Misfortune and ill luck always attaches itself in a minor degree to
every team which engages in a championship contest, but most assuredly
Philadelphia had more of its share of reverses through accidents to
players and illness than any team of the National League. Yet the
Philadelphias were courageous players from whom little complaint was
heard. They took their misfortunes with what grace they could and played
ball with what success they could achieve, whether they had their best
team in the field or their poorest.

Strangely enough they played an important part in the results of the
race. Frequently they defeated the Chicagos, all too frequently for the
comfort of the Chicago Base Ball enthusiasts, and when the loss of a
game or two by the Philadelphias to the Chicagos might have turned the
race temporarily one way or the other, the Philadelphias, with decided
conviction, refused to lose.

It may not be necessary to call attention to the fact of absolute
fairness in the contests for championships in the various leagues which
comprise Base Ball in its organized form. The day has passed when the
Base Ball enthusiast permits his mind to dwell much upon that sort of
thing, if ever he did. But if it were necessary to advance an argument
as to the integrity of the sport and the high class of the men who are
engaged in the summer season in playing professional Base Ball, there
could be nothing better to prove that the price of victory is the one
great consideration, greater than the fact of Philadelphia's success
against a team which was a strong contender against that which finally
won the championship.

As much as Philadelphia desired that New York should be beaten, for
there was no love lost between the teams in a ball playing way, the
fighting spirit and the predominant desire to add to the column of
victories as many games as possible brought forth the best efforts of
the team of ill fortune against Chicago and struck telling blows against
Chicago's success at the most timely moments.

       *       *       *       *       *

As a whole the St. Louis team did not play as well in 1912 as it did in
the preceding year. There was some bad luck for St. Louis as well as
Philadelphia. The players did not get started as well as they had in the
previous two years. Their spring training was more or less disastrous,
for they were one of the clubs to run into the most contrary of spring
weather.

Perhaps the worst trouble which the St. Louis team had, take the season
through from beginning to finish, was in regard to the pitchers. There
were two or three young men on the team who seemed at the close of the
season of 1911 to be likely to develop into high class pitchers in 1912.
They pitched well in 1912 at intervals. One day it seemed as if they at
last had struck their stride and the next they faltered and their
unsteadiness gave their opponents the advantage which they sought.

Perhaps, if the St. Louis team had been a little stronger to batting it
would have rated higher among the organization of the National League.
Several games were lost which would have been taken into camp by a
better display at bat. In fielding the team was much stronger and the
success of the infield, combined with some excellent outfield work now
and then, frequently held the team up in close battles, but when the
pitchers faltered on the path the fielders were not able to bear the
force of the attack.

       *       *       *       *       *

For three seasons in succession Brooklyn seems to have been fated to
start the season with bad luck and misfortune. The spring training trip
did not bring to Brooklyn all that had been expected owing to the
inclement weather.

When the team began the season at Washington Park a tremendous crowd
filled the stands. Long before it was time for the game to begin the
spectators became unruly and swarmed over the field. It was impossible
for the ground police to do anything with the excited enthusiasts and at
last the city police were asked to assist. They tried to clear the
field, but only succeeded in driving the crowd from the infield.
Spectators were so thick in the outfield that they crowded upon the
bases and prevented the players from doing their best. For that matter
the outfielders could not do much of anything.

A ground rule of two bases into the crowd was established, and the New
York players, who were the opponents of Brooklyn, took advantage of it
to drive the ball with all their force, trusting that it would sail over
the heads of the fielders and drop into the crowd. They were so
successful that they made a record for two-base hits and Brooklyn was
overwhelmed.

This unfortunate beginning appeared to depress the Brooklyn team. The
players recovered slightly, but had barely got into their stride again
when accidents to the men began to happen. Some of them became ill, and
the manager was put to his wits end to get a team on the field which
should make a good showing.

Fighting against these odds Brooklyn made the best record that it could.
As the season warmed into the hotter months the infield had to be
rearranged. There was disappointment in the playing of some of the
infielders. It was also necessary to reconstruct the outfield. Unable to
get all of the men whom he would have desired the manager continued to
experiment and his experiments brought forth good fruit, for
unquestionably the excellent work of Moran, who played both right field
and center field for Brooklyn, was a great help to the pitchers. By the
time that the Base Ball playing year was almost concluded Brooklyn had
so far recovered that it was able to place a better nine on the diamond
than had been the case all of the year.

Boston never was expected to be a championship organization. The
material was not there for a championship organization, but Boston did
play better ball than in 1911 and that is to the credit of players,
manager and owner. The club had changed hands, but the new owner had not
been able to readjust all of the positions to suit him. He put the best
nine possible in the field with what he had. Never threatening to become
a championship winning team Boston played steadily with what strength it
possessed and always a little better than in 1911, so that the year
could not fairly be considered unsuccessful at its finish.

       *       *       *       *       *

Going back to the beginning of the year and looking over the contest for
the National League championship of 1912, it is not uninteresting,
indeed it is of much interest to call attention to the remarkably odd
record which was made by New York to win the pennant. In that record
stands the story of the fight, with striking shifts from week to week.

The first game played by the Giants was against Brooklyn, as has been
related, and it was won by New York and that, by the way, was the game
in which Marquard began his admirable record as a pitcher for the
season.

The Giants lost the next three games. Two of them were to Brooklyn and
one to Boston, and the players of the New York team began to wonder a
little as to what had happened to them.

Then New York won nine straight games from the eastern clubs, being
stopped finally by Philadelphia on the Polo Grounds. But that defeat did
not check them. They started on another winning spurt and played
throughout the west without a defeat until they arrived in Cincinnati.
This total of victories was nine. All of the games on the schedule were
not played because of inclement weather.

Cincinnati won twice from New York and then the Giants turned the tables
on the Reds, who had been leading the league. They threw them out of the
lead, which they never regained, and won another succession of nine
victories. That made three times consecutively that they had won a total
of twenty-seven games in groups of nine, assuredly an unusual result.

Losing one game they again entered the winning class. This time they won
six games in succession. Then they lost a game. After this single defeat
they won but three games. Their charm of games in blocks of nine had
deserted them. They were beaten twice after winning three, and
Pittsburgh was the team.

Then they won another single game and immediately after that victory
lost to Brooklyn. But that was the last defeat for a long time. Well
into the race, with their condition excellent, and playing better ball
than they had played since their wonderful spurt of the month of
September in 1911, they won sixteen games in succession.

The morning of the Fourth of July dawned hot and sultry. The air was
thick and muggy and without life. The Giants were scheduled to play two
games that day with Brooklyn, the first in the morning and the second in
the afternoon. If they won both of them they would tie a former record,
which had been made by the New York team, for consecutive victories.

Perhaps it may have been reaction after the long strain of winning or it
may have been an uncommonly good streak of batting on the part of
Brooklyn. Surely Brooklyn batted well enough, as the morning game went
to the latter team by the score of 10 to 4. In the afternoon Brooklyn
again beat the Giants by the score of 5 to 2. Wiltse pitched for New
York and Stack for Brooklyn.

The New York team went to Chicago and won twice. Then it lost. The
fourth game was won from Chicago and then the Giants lost two in
succession.

They won one game and immediately after that lost four in succession.
Chicago began to have visions of winning the pennant.

From Chicago the Giants went to Pittsburgh, stood firm in a series of
three games, winning two and losing one. Their next call was at
Cincinnati and beginning with that series they got back to form a trifle
and won five games in succession.

Returning home they were beaten on the Polo Grounds three games in
succession by Chicago. After that New York settled into a winning stride
again and won six games in succession. Pittsburgh came to the Polo
Grounds and stopped the winning streak of the champions by defeating
them three times in succession. That was a hard jolt for any team to
stand. Yet the Giants rallied and won the test game of the Pittsburgh
series.

It was but a momentary pause, for after another victory St. Louis beat
New York. The Giants won another game and the next day lost to St.
Louis. That finished the home games for New York and the team started
west, facing a desperate fight. They lost the first game to Chicago, won
the next and lost the third. Going from Chicago to St. Louis they won
three games in succession, returning to Chicago, lost a postponed game
with the Cubs.

From Chicago their path led them to Pittsburgh where they lost the first
contest. Then they made the stand of the season when they beat the
Pittsburghs four games in succession.

Cincinnati turned the tables on the Giants to the consternation of the
New York fans and won twice, when it seemed as if the Giants were about
to start on a career which would safely land the championship. The
Giants returned home and beat Brooklyn in the first game and lost the
second. They won the next two and then lost again. The championship was
still in abeyance. Again they won and then lost to Philadelphia.

Here came another test in a Philadelphia series at Philadelphia which
contained postponed games, and once more rallying with all their might,
won four games and lost the last of this series of five.

Following that they won three games and then lost to St. Louis. They won
three times in succession and then lost four games to Chicago and
Cincinnati, but all of this time Chicago was gradually falling away
because it was necessary that the Cubs should continue to win successive
victories if they were to beat New York for the championship.

The Giants atoned for the four defeats at the hands of Chicago and
Cincinnati by winning the next four games in succession, and while this
did not actually settle the championship, that is, the definite
championship game had not been played, the race was practically over and
all that was left to fight for in the National League was second place,
in which Chicago and Pittsburgh were most interested. The pitching staff
of the Chicagos had worn out under the strain and the Cubs were beaten
out by Pittsburgh.

The semi-monthly standing of the race by percentages follows:

                  STANDING OF CLUBS ON APRIL 30.
     Club.       Won. Lost.  PC.        Club.         Won. Lost.  PC.
Cincinnati        10    3   .769   Pittsburgh           5    7   .417
New York           8    3   .727   Philadelphia         4    6   .400
Boston             6    6   .500   St. Louis            5    8   .385
Chicago            5    7   .417   Brooklyn             4    7   .364


                  STANDING OF CLUBS ON MAY 15.
     Club.       Won. Lost.  PC.        Club.         Won. Lost.  PC.
New York          18    4   .810   St. Louis           10   16   .385
Cincinnati        19    5   .792   Boston               9   15   .375
Chicago           12   12   .500   Philadelphia         7   13   .350
Pittsburgh         9   12   .429   Brooklyn             7   14   .333

                  STANDING OF CLUBS ON MAY 31.
     Club.       Won. Lost.  PC.        Club.         Won. Lost.  PC.
New York          28    7   .800   St. Louis           20   22   .455
Cincinnati        23   17   .675   Philadelphia       .14   19   .426
Chicago           19   17   .628   Brooklyn            12   22   .353
Pittsburgh        18   17   .514   Boston              13   26   .333

                  STANDING OF CLUBS ON JUNE 15.
     Club.       Won. Lost.  PC.        Club.         Won. Lost.  PC.
New York          37   10   .787   Philadelphia        20   24   .455
Pittsburgh        27   20   .574   St. Louis           23   31   .426
Chicago           26   21   .563   Brooklyn            16   30   .348
Cincinnati        25   23   .553   Boston              16   35   .314

                  STANDING OF CLUBS ON JUNE 30.
     Club.       Won. Lost.  PC.        Club.         Won. Lost.  PC.
New York          50   11   .820   Philadelphia        24   33   .421
Pittsburgh        37   25   .597   Brooklyn            24   36   .400
Chicago           34   26   .567   St. Louis           27   42   .391
Cincinnati        35   32   .522   Boston              20   46   .303

                  STANDING OF CLUBS ON JULY 15.
     Club.       Won. Lost.  PC.       Club.          Won. Lost.  PC.
New York          58   19   .753   Philadelphia        34   38   .472
Chicago           47   28   .627   St. Louis           34   49   .410
Pittsburgh        45   31   .592   Brooklyn            30   48   .385
Cincinnati        41   39   .513   Boston              22   59   .272

                  STANDING OF CLUBS ON JULY 31.
     Club.       Won. Lost.  PC.       Club.          Won. Lost.  PC.
New York          67   24   .736   Cincinnati          45   49   .479
Chicago           57   34   .626   St. Louis           41   55   .427
Pittsburgh        52   37   .684   Brooklyn            35   59   .372
Philadelphia      45   43   .511   Boston              25   66   .275

                  STANDING OF CLUBS ON AUGUST 15.
     Club.       Won. Lost.  PC.       Club.          Won. Lost.  PC.
New York          73   30   .709   Cincinnati          50   58   .463
Chicago           69   36   .657   St. Louis           47   60   .439
Pittsburgh        65   40   .619   Brooklyn            39   69   .361
Philadelphia      50   54   .481   Boston              28   76   .269

                  STANDING OF CLUBS ON AUGUST 31.
     Club.       Won. Lost.  PC.       Club.          Won. Lost.  PC.
New York          82   36   .695   Cincinnati          57   65   .467
Chicago           79   42   .653   St. Louis           53   59   .434
Pittsburgh        71   50   .587   Brooklyn            44   76   .367
Philadelphia      59   60   .496   Boston              37   84   .306

                  STANDING OF CLUBS ON SEPTEMBER 15
     Club.       Won. Lost.  PC.       Club.          Won. Lost.  PC.
New York          95   40   .704   Philadelphia        63   70   .474
Chicago           83   61   .619   St. Louis           57   80   .416
Pittsburgh        82   53   .607   Brooklyn            50   85   .370
Cincinnati        68   68   .500   Boston              42   93   .311

                  STANDING OF CLUBS ON SEPTEMBER 30
     Club.       Won. Lost.  PC.       Club.          Won. Lost.  PC.
New York         101   45   .692   Philadelphia        70   77   .476
Pittsburgh        91   57   .615   St. Louis           62   88   .413
Chicago           89   68   .605   Brooklyn            57   91   .385
Cincinnati        74   76   .493   Boston              42  100   .324

STANDING OF CLUBS AT CLOSE OF SEASON.

  Club.      N.Y. Pitts. Chi. Cin. Phil. St.L. Bkln. Bos.  Won.  PC.
New York      --    12     9   16   17     15    16   18   103  .682
Pittsburgh     8    --    13   11   14     15    14   18    92  .616
Chicago       13     8    --   11   10     15    17   17    91  .607
Cincinnati     6    11    10   --    8     13    16   11    75  .490
Philadelphia   5     8    10   14   --     11    13   12    73  .480
St. Louis      7     7     7    9   11     --    10   12    63  .412
Brooklyn       6     8     5    6    9     11    --   13    58  .379
Boston         3     4     6   11   10     10     9   --    52  .340
              --    --    --   --   --     --    --   --
    Lost      48    58    59   78   79     90    95  101

The Chicago-Pittsburgh game at Chicago, October 2, was protested by the
Pittsburgh club and thrown out of the records, taking a victory from the
Chicago club and a defeat from the Pittsburgh club.




AMERICAN LEAGUE SEASON OF 1912

BY IRVING E. SANBORN, CHICAGO.


Pre-season predictions in Base Ball do not carry much weight
individually, but when many minds, looking at the game from different
angles, agree on the main points there usually is good reason behind
such near unanimity. Outside of Boston it is doubtful if any experienced
critic of Base Ball in the country expected the Red Sox to be converted
from a second division team into pennant winners in one short season. If
such expectancy existed in Boston it was partially a case of the wish
fathering the thought. The majority of men believed the machine with
which Connie Mack had achieved two league and two world's championships
was good for at least one more American League pennant. That expectation
was based on the comparative youth of the important cogs in the Athletic
machine. Yet this dope went all wrong. The Athletics were beaten out by
two teams which were in the second division in 1911, one of them as low
as seventh place.

The reason for these form reversals were several. The Boston and
Washington teams improved magically in new hands, while the Athletics
went back a bit, partly because of too much prosperity and partly
because of adversity. Having come from behind in 1911 and made a winning
from a wretched start, the Mackmen apparently thought they could do it
again and delayed starting their fight until it was too late. The loss
of the services of Dan Murphy for more than half of the season also was
a prime factor.

The White Sox were the season's sensations both ways and for a time kept
everybody guessing by their whirlwind start under new management. They
walked over every opponent they tackled for the first few weeks, then
began to slip and it required herculean efforts to keep them in the
first division at the finish. The Chicago team always was a puzzle to
all parties to the race, including itself.

From the outset there was almost no hope for the other four teams in the
league. Cleveland and Detroit occasionally broke into the upper circles
for a day or two in the early weeks of the season, but not far enough to
rouse any false anticipations among their supporters. St. Louis and New
York quickly gravitated to the lower strata and remained there, the
Yankees finally losing out in their battle with the Browns to keep out
of last place.

Five American League teams started the season under new managers. One of
the three which began the race under leaders retained from the previous
year changed horses in mid-stream. Jake Stahl, Harry Wolverton, Clark
Griffith, Harry Davis and James Callahan were the new faces in the
managerial gallery. Some of them were not exactly new to the job but
were in new jobs. Of these Stahl, Griffith and Callahan proved
successful leaders and the first named became the hero of a world's
championship team when the last ball of the series was caught. Davis
resigned during the season and was succeeded by Joe Birmingham, who
almost duplicated the feat of George Stovall in 1911, putting new life
into the Cleveland team and starting a spurt which made the race for
position interesting. Wolverton stuck the season out in spite of
handicaps that would have discouraged anybody, then handed in his
resignation. Wallace, who started the year at the helm again in St.
Louis, cheerfully handed over the management to Stovall, who had been
transplanted into the Mound City in the hope of making Davis' task
easier in Cleveland. Stovall made the Browns a hard team to beat and had
the mild satisfaction of hoisting them out of the cellar which they had
occupied for the better part of three seasons.

An unpleasant feature of the season, but one which had beneficial
results, was the strike of the Detroit players, entailing the staging of
a farcical game in Philadelphia between the Athletics and a team of
semi-professionals. This incident grew out of an attack on a New York
spectator by Ty Cobb while in uniform and the immediate suspension of
the player for an indefinite period.

The prompt and unyielding stand taken by President Johnson against the
action of the Detroit players and the diplomatic efforts of President
Navin of that club averted serious or extended trouble and undoubtedly
furnished a warning against any similar act in the near future. Another,
excellent result was the effort made by club owners to prevent the abuse
of the right of free speech by that small element of the game's
patronage which finds its greatest joy in abusing the players, secure in
the knowledge that it is practically protected from personal injury in
retaliation.

In the development of new players of note the league enjoyed an average
season, and a considerable amount of new blood was injected into the
game in the persons of players who made good without attracting freakish
attention. The rise of the Washington team from seventh to second place
brought its youngsters into the limelight prominently, and of these
Foster and Moeller were commended highly. Gandil, who had his second
tryout in fast company, plugged the hole at first base which had worried
Washington managers for some time. Shanks also made a reputation for
himself as a fielder. These men were helped somewhat by the showing of
their team, but the case of Gandil would have been notable In any
company. His first advent into the majors with the White Sox showed him
to be an exceedingly promising player, but for some reason his work fell
off until he was discarded into the International League. There he
quickly recovered his stride and, when he did come back shortly after
the season opened last spring, he demonstrated that he had the ability
to hit consistently and proved a tower of strength to Griffith's team.

Baumgardner of the St. Louis Browns was an example of a youngster making
good in spite of comparatively poor company. His pitching record with a
team which finished in seventh place stamps him as one of the best, if
not the best, of the slab finds of the year. Jean Dubuc of Detroit was
another find of rare value and still another was Buck O'Brien of Boston,
but these had the advantage over Baumgardner of getting better support
both in the field and at bat. O'Brien in particular was fortunate to
break in with a championship team.

The White Sox introduced three youngsters who made good and promise to
keep on doing so. Two of them, George Weaver and Morris Rath, started
the season with Chicago and the third, Baker Borton, joined the team
late in the summer. Still later Kay Schalk started in to make what looks
like a name for himself as a catcher.

       *       *       *       *       *

No better illustration of the slight difference between a pennant
winning machine and a losing team in the American League has occurred
recently than the Boston Red Sox furnished last year. It did not differ
materially from the team of 1910 which compelled the use of the nickname
"Speed Boys." Jake Stahl was a member of that team, and except for the
absence of Stahl in 1911, the champions of 1912 were composed of
practically the same men who finished in the second division only the
year before. But for the showing of 1910 the whole credit for last
season's transformation might be attributed to Manager Stahl. Much of it
unquestionably is his by right, and there is no intent here to deprive
him of any of the high honors he achieved.

To Stahl's arrangement of his infield probably is due much of the
improvement in the team. The outfield trio of wonderful performers did
not perform any more wonders last year than in the previous season, but
what had been holes on the infield were plugged tightly. Many looked
askance when Larry Gardner, supposedly a second baseman, was assigned to
third, but the results more than justified the move, and it made room at
second for Yerkes, a player who had proved only mediocre on the other
side of the diamond. This switch and the return of Stahl, who is a grand
mark to throw at on first base, gave the infield the same dash and
confidence as the outfield possessed, and the addition of some pitching
strength in Bedient and O'Brien did the rest. It is the ability to
discover just the right combination that differentiates the real manager
from the semi-failure.

The Red Sox were in the race from the start, but they were eclipsed for
a time by the White Sox. In spite of that the Bostonians never faltered
but kept up a mighty consistent gait all the way and wore down all
competitors before the finish. Stahl's men never were lower than second
place in the race with the exception of three days early in May. when
Washington poked its nose in front of the Red Sox and started after the
White Sox, only to be driven back into third place by the men of
Callahan themselves. For more than a week in April Boston was in the
lead. Then Chicago went out and established a lead so long that it
lasted until near the middle of June. Boston attended strictly to its
knitting, however. Without stopping in their steady stride, the Red Sox
hung on, waiting for the Callahans to slump. When their chance came in
June the Bostonians jumped into the lead--June 10 was the exact
date--and never thereafter did they take any team's dust.

By the Fourth of July Boston had a lead of seven games over the
Athletics. The Red Sox kept right along at their even gait and a month
later were leading by the same margin over Washington, which had
displaced the former champions. On September 1 Boston's lead was
thirteen games, but it was not until September 18 that the American
League pennant was actually cinched beyond the possibility of losing it.

All season Stahl's men were known as a lucky ball team. Delving into the
files for the dope, revealed the fact that the newspaper reports of
about every third game they played on the average contained some
reference to "Boston's luck." This does not detract anything from their
glory. No team ever won a major league pennant unless it was lucky. No
team ever had as steady a run of luck as Boston enjoyed in 1912, unless
that team made a lot of its own luck by persistently hammering away when
luck was against it and keeping ever on the alert to take advantage of
an opening.

That is the explanation of the unusual consistency that marked the work
of the Red Sox all season and the fact they did not experience a serious
slump. In the first month of the season they won twelve games and lost
eight. The second month of the race was their poorest one--the nearest
they came to a slump. In that month they won eight and lost ten games.
In the third month Boston won twenty-three and lost seven games. The
fourth month saw them win twenty games and lose eight and in the fifth
month their record was twenty victories and five defeats. In the final
stages of the race the Red Sox were not under as strong pressure from
behind and naturally did not travel as fast after sighting the wire, but
the figures produced explain why Boston won the pennant. It started well
and kept going faster until there was no longer need for speed. The
annexation of the world's championship in a record breaking world's
series with the New York Giants was a fitting climax to their season's
achievement.

       *       *       *       *       *

When Clark Griffith stalked through the west on his first invasion of
the season with a team of youngsters, some of them practically unknown,
and declared he was going after the pennant, everybody laughed or wanted
to. A few weeks later everybody who had laughed was sorry, and those who
only wanted to laugh were glad they didn't. For Griffith kept his men
keyed up to the fighting pitch during the greater part of the season,
and when they did start slumping in September, he made a slight switch
on his infield, applied the brakes and started them going up again. The
result was that Washington finished second for the first time in its
major league history, winning that position in the closing days of the
race after a bitter tussle with the passing world's champions.

The acquisition of Gandil from Montreal plugged a hole at first base
which had defied the efforts of several predecessors to stop and it
helped make a brilliant infield, for it gave the youngsters something
they were not afraid to throw at. In giving credit for the work of
Griffith's infield, the inclination is to overestimate the worth of the
new stars. But there was a tower of strength at short in George McBride,
who has been playing steadily and consistently at that position for
several seasons without being given one-tenth the credit his work has
merited.

The Washington team at one time or another occupied every position in
the race except the first and last. The Senators were in seventh place
for a few days in the opening weeks of the season, but not anywhere
nearly as long as they were in second place later on. They climbed out
of the second division by rapid stages and after May 1 they were driven
back into it only once during the rest of the year. That was for three
days in the beginning of June. In the meantime they had knocked Boston
out of second place for a short while in May and, most of the way, had
enjoyed a close fight with Philadelphia for third and fourth spots. Near
the middle of June, after the Red Sox had ousted their White namesakes
from first place, the Senators also passed Chicago and started after
Boston. But the youngsters were not yet hardened to the strain and soon
fell back to third and fourth. On July 5 Washington went into second
place and held onto it, with the exception of three days, for a period
of two months. September brought a slump and Griffith's men surrendered
the runner-up position to the Athletics for about two weeks, then came
back and took it away from the Mackmen at the end.

       *       *       *       *       *

What happened to the world's champion Athletics the public did not
really know until after the middle of the season. Then the suspensions
of Chief <DW12> and Rube Oldring blazoned the fact that Manager Mack's
splendid system of handling a Base Ball team by moral suasion had fallen
down in the face of overconfidence and too much prosperity. Few people
saw any reason for changing their belief in the prowess of the Athletics
during the first half of the season, because they were in as good
position most of the time as they had been the year previous at the same
stage of the race. They were expected to make the same strong finish
that swept everything before it in 1911. Not until the second half of
the season was well under way did the adherents of the Mackmen give up
the battle.

Philadelphia's sterling young infield seemed to stand up all right all
the year, but the outfield and the slab staff gave Connie Mack sleepless
nights. When Dan Murphy was injured in Chicago in June it was discovered
what he had meant to the team. Dan was what the final punch is to a
boxing star. His timely batting was missed in knocking out opponents,
and the injury kept him out all the rest of the season. The strain which
Jack Coombs gave his side in the world's series of 1911 proved more
serious and lasting than was expected, and if Eddie Plank had not come
back into grand form it would have been a tougher season than it was for
the Athletics.

The Mackmen made a bad beginning for champions, and on May 1 were in the
second division. During all of May and part of June they climbed into
the first division and fell out of it with great regularity. Not until
near the middle of June did the Athletics gain a strangle hold on the
upper half of the league standing, from that time on they kept above the
.500 mark, and toward the end of June they met the White Sox coming
back. There was a short scuffle during the early part of July among the
Athletics, Senators and White Sox for the possession of the position
next to Boston. Then Chicago was pushed back, leaving Philadelphia and
Washington to fight it out the rest of the way. Trimming the Phillies
four out of five games in their city series did not lessen the gloom of
the Athletics.

       *       *       *       *       *

The White Sox by their meteoric career demonstrated the value of good
condition at the start. Although the Chicagoans experienced tough
weather in Texas last spring they fared better than any of the other
teams in their league, and that fact, combined with the readiness with
which youth gets into playing trim, enabled the White Sox to walk
through the early weeks of their schedule with an ease that astonished
everybody. Even prophets who were friendly to them had expected no such
showing. So fast did the Callahans travel that on May 3 they had lost
only four games, having won thirteen in that time. But Boston was
hanging on persistently. Chicago's margin over the Red Sox varied from
four to five and a half games; during May, on the fourteenth of that
month the White Sox had won twenty-one games and lost only five, giving
them the percentage of .808. During part of this time they were on their
first invasion of the east. May 18 saw the Chicago men five and a half
games in the lead and their constituents were dreaming of another
world's pennant almost every night.

Even the doubters were beginning to believe Manager Callahan had found
the right combination. Just then came the awakening. The luck which had
been coming their way began breaking against them with remarkable
persistency. Plays that had won game after game went wrong and youth was
not resourceful enough to offset the breaks. The White Sox began to fall
away fast in percentage, but managed to cling to the lead until June 10.
Boston passed them right there and the Chicagoans kept on going.

By mid-season Manager Callahan was fighting to keep his men in the first
division and their slump did not end until they landed in fifth place
for a couple of days in August. Then in desperation Callahan began
switching his line-up and by herculean effort--and the help of Ed
Walsh--climbed back into the upper quartet and stuck there to the
finish. It was a desperate remedy to take Harry Lord off third base,
where he had played during most of his professional career, and try to
convert him into an outfielder, a position in which he had had no
experience at all. But Lord was too good an offensive player to take out
of the game, in spite of his slump at third base, and he was willing to
try the outfield. Results justified the move. Lord learned outfielding
rapidly, and Zeider proved that third base was his natural position. The
acquisition of Borton for first base enabled Callahan to put Collins in
the outfield, and the White Sox in reality were a stronger team when
they finished than when they started their runaway race in April. With
one more reliable pitcher to take his turn regularly on the slab all
season the White Sox would have kept in the race. Callahan's men made up
for some of the disappointment they produced by beating the Cubs in a
nine-game post-season series, after the Cubs had won three victories.
Two of the nine games were drawn and one other went into extra innings,
making a more extended combat than the world's series.

       *       *       *       *       *

Cleveland's 1912 experience was almost identical with that of 1911, even
to swapping managers in mid-season. Harry Davis, for years first
lieutenant to Connie Mack, took the management or the Naps under a
severe handicap. He succeeded a temporary manager, George Stovall, who
had made good in the latter half of the previous season, but who could
not be retained without abrogating a previous agreement with Davis. The
public did not take kindly to the situation when the Naps failed to get
into the fight, and the new management had a pitching staff of
youngsters with out much of a catching staff to help them out when in
trouble.

The Cleveland team never was prominent in the race after the first
fortnight, although it retained a respectable position at the top of the
second division, with an occasional journey into the first division
during the first month or six weeks. In the middle of June the Naps
dropped back into sixth place, below Detroit, for a while, then took a
brace and reclaimed the leadership of the second squad for part of July.
Midway in August found Cleveland apparently anchored in sixth spot and,
with the consent of the Cleveland club owners, Manager Davis resigned
his position.

The management was given to Joe Birmingham, who took hold of it with
enthusiasm but without experience, just as Stovall did the previous
year. He infused new life into the team, shook it up a bit, and improved
its playing so much that Cleveland passed Detroit before the end of the
race, and was threatening to knock Chicago out of fourth place at one
time. This would have happened but for the brace of the White Sox.
Profiting by previous experience the club owners did not look around for
a permanent manager until they saw what Birmingham could do, and in
consequence were in position to offer him the leadership of the Naps for
the season of 1913.

       *       *       *       *       *

What was left to Manager Jennings from the great Detroit team that had
won three straight pennants was slowing up, with the exception of Tyrus
Cobb, who has yet to reach the meridian of his career, and the Georgian
got into trouble fairly early in the season, with the result that he was
suspended for a considerable period. That and the strike of the Tigers
in Philadelphia threw a monkey-wrench into the machinery, resulting in a
tangle which Jennings was unable to straighten out all the season. There
was a problem at first base which he had a hard time solving. The break
in Del Gainor's wrist the season before had not mended as it should have
done, and he was unable to play the position regularly. Moriarty was
pressed into service there and did good work in an unfamiliar position;
then the infield was shifted several times without marked benefit.
Donovan, who had always been of great help on the slab in hot weather,
was not equal to the task of another year and was made manager of the
Providence team. Jean Dubuc was the only one of the young pitchers who
proved a star, but his work kept the Tigers from being a lot more
disappointing proposition than they were.

       *       *       *       *       *

St. Louis and New York were outclassed from the start. Two weeks after
the season opened it was apparent they were doomed to fight it out for
the last round on the ladder. That the Browns finally escaped the cellar
in the closing days of the race was due largely to the efforts of
Stovall, who was made manager to succeed Wallace near the middle of the
season.

As early as the first of May it was seen the Browns and Yankees were
destined to trail. The New York team quickly gravitated to the bottom.
It started without the services of Catcher Eddie Sweeney, who held out
for a larger salary, and it had a manager at the helm who was
inexperienced in major league leadership. Not until April 24 did New
York win a game and in that time it had lost seven straight,
postponements accounting for the rest of the time.

St. Louis got a little better start and for a while was inclined to
dispute sixth place with Detroit, but on May 1 the Browns found only New
York between them and the basement. In the middle of May the Yankees
passed St. Louis and ran seventh in the race until July. 4. But accident
and injury, and the loss of Cree, shot the Yankees to pieces. For nearly
six weeks, however, it was a battle royal between New York and St. Louis
to escape the last hole, but in the middle of August the Yankees again
established their superiority, retaining seventh place until after the
middle of September. In the homestretch the new blood given Stovall
enabled him to pull his men out of the last notch just before the
schedule ran out. This feat was soon forgotten in the defeat of the
Browns by the Cardinals in their post-prandial series for the
championship of the Mound City.

       *       *       *       *       *

The year was not prolific of freak or record-breaking performances in
the American League. Walter Johnson of Washington, and Joe Wood of
Boston were credited with sixteen straight victories, which raised the
American League record in that respect from fourteen straight, formerly
held by Jack Chesbro of the Yankees. Mullin of Detroit and Hamilton of
St. Louis added their names to the list of hurlers who have held
opponents without a safe hit in nine innings. Mullin performed his
hitless feat against St. Louis and Hamilton retaliated by holding
Detroit without a safety. The number of games in which pitchers escaped
with less than four hits against them was smaller than usual, however.
There were only seventy-eight shut-out games recorded last season by
comparison with the American League's record of 145.

The longest game of the younger league's season lasted nineteen innings,
Washington defeating Philadelphia in that combat 5 to 4, and it was
played late in September when the two teams were scrapping for second
place. The American League record for overtime is twenty-four innings,
held by Philadelphia and Boston. There were a lot of slugging games in
1912, but not as many as during the season of 1911. Philadelphia piled
up the highest total, 25, in eight innings, but it was made against the
semi-professional team which wore Detroit uniforms on the day the Tigers
struck. The highest genuine total of hits was twenty-three, made by the
Athletics against New York pitchers. The Athletics also run up the
highest score of the league's season when they compounded twenty-four
runs against Detroit In May.

The semi-monthly standing of the race by percentages follows:

       STANDING OF CLUBS ON MAY 1.
  Club.                Won.    Lost.   PC.
  Chicago               11       4    .733
  Boston                 9       5    .643
  Washington             8       6    .615
  Cleveland              7       6    .538
  Athletics              7       7    .600
  Detroit                6      10    .375
  St. Louis              5       9    .357
  New York               3      10    .231

  STANDING OF CLUBS ON MAY 15.

  Chicago               21       6    .778
  Boston                16       8    .667
  Washington            12      12    .500
  Cleveland             11      11    .500
  Detroit               13      14    .481
  Athletics             10      12    .466
  New York               6      15    .286
  St. Louis              6      17    .261

  STANDING OF CLUBS ON JUNE 1.

  Chicago               29      12    .707
  Boston                25      14    .641
  Detroit               21      20    .512
  Athletics             17      17    .500
  Cleveland             18      19    .486
  Washington            19      21    .476
  New York              12      23    .343
  St. Louis             12      27    .308

  STANDING OF CLUBS ON JUNE 15.

  Boston                33      19    .635
  Chicago               33      21    .611
  Washington            33      21    .611
  Athletics             27      21    .563
  Detroit               26      29    .473
  Cleveland             23      28    .451
  New York              17      31    .364
  St. Louis             15      37    .288

  STANDING OF CLUBS ON JULY 1.

  Boston                47      21    .691
  Athletics             39      25    .609
  Chicago               38      28    .576
  Washington            37      31    .551
  Cleveland             33      38    .492
  Detroit               33      36    .478
  New York              18      44    .290
  St. Louis             18      45    .288

  STANDING OF CLUBS ON JULY 15.

  Boston                56      26    .683
  Washington            60      33    .602
  Athletics             46      36    .668
  Chicago               44      35    .567
  Cleveland             42      42    .500
  Detroit               40      43    .488
  New York              22      53    .298
  St. Louis             22      56    .282

  STANDING OF CLUBS ON AUGUST 1.

  Boston                67      31    .684
  Washington            61      37    .622
  Athletics             55      41    .573
  Chicago               49      36    .516
  Detroit               48      42    .485
  Cleveland             45      43    .464
  New York              31      53    .333
  St. Louis             30      56    .312

  STANDING OF CLUBS ON AUGUST 15.

  Boston                76      34    .691
  Athletics             66      43    .606
  Washington            67      44    .604
  Chicago               54      55    .495
  Detroit               55      58    .487
  Cleveland             51      59    .464
  New York              36      73    .327
  St. Louis             36      74    .321

  STANDING OF CLUBS ON SEPTEMBER 1.

  Boston              87     37   .702
  Washington          77     49   .611
  Athletics           73     50   .593
  Chicago             62     61   .504
  Detroit             57     70   .449
  Cleveland           54     71   .432
  New York            45     78   .366
  St. Louis           43     82   .344

  STANDING OF CLUBS ON SEPTEMBER 15.

  Boston              97     39   .713
  Athletics           81     56   .591
  Washington          82     57   .590
  Chicago             67     69   .493
  Detroit             64     75   .461
  Cleveland           62     75   .453
  New York            48     88   .353
  St. Louis           47     89   .346

  STANDING OF CLUBS ON OCTOBER 1.

  Boston             103     48   .691
  Washington          89     60   .567
  Athletics           89     60   .567
  Chicago             74     76   .493
  Cleveland           72     77   .483
  Detroit             69     80   .463
  St. Louis           52     98   .347
  New York            49    100   .329

  STANDING OF CLUBS AT CLOSE OF SEASON

               Bos.  Wash. Ath. Chic. Clev. Det. S.L. N.Y. Won  PC
  Boston         --   12    15   16   11    15    17   19  105  .691
  Washington     10   --     7   13   18    14    14   15   91  .599
  Athletics       7   18    --   10   14    13    16   17   99  .592
  Chicago         6    9    12   --   11    14    13   13   78  .506
  Cleveland      11    4     8   11   --    13    15   13   75  .490
  Detroit         6    8     9    8    9    --    13   16   69  .451
  St. Louis       5    8     6    9    7     9    --    9   58  .344
  New York        3    7     5    9    8     6    13   --   50  .329
                 --   --    --   --   --    --    --   --
         Lost    47   61    62   76   78    84   101   102

  NATIONAL LEAGUE

  STANDING OF CLUBS AT CLOSE OF SEASON.

                 N.Y. Pitts.Chi. Cin. Phil.St.L. Bkln. Bos. Won. PC.

New York           --   12    9   16   17   15   16    18  103  .682
Pittsburgh          8   --   13   11   14   15   14    18   93  .616
Chicago            13    8   --   11   10   15   17    17   91  .607
Cincinnati          6   11   10   --    8   13   16    11   75  .498
Philadelphia        5    8   10   14   --   11   13    12   73  .480
St. Louis           7    7    7    9   11   --   10    12   63  .412
Brooklyn            6    8    5    6    9   11   --    13   58  .379
Boston              3    4    6   11   10   10    9    --   52  .340
                   --   --   --   --   --   --   --    --   --  ----
Lost               48   58   59   78   79   90   95   101

The Chicago-Pittsburgh game at Chicago, October 2, was protested by the
Pittsburgh club and thrown out of the records, taking a victory from the
Chicago club and a defeat from the Pittsburgh club.

CHAMPIONSHIP WINNERS IN PREVIOUS YEARS.

1871- Athletics  .759 | 1885- Chicago    .770 | 1899- Brooklyn   .682
1872- Boston     .830 | 1886- Chicago    .726 | 1900- Brooklyn   .603
1873- Boston     .729 | 1887- Detroit    .637 | 1901- Pittsburgh .647
1874- Boston     .717 | 1888- New York   .641 | 1902- Pittsburgh .741
1875- Boston     .899 | 1889- New York   .659 | 1903- Pittsburgh .650
1876- Chicago    .788 | 1890- Brooklyn   .667 | 1904- New York   .693
1877- Boston     .646 | 1891- Boston     .630 | 1905- New York   .668
1878- Boston     .683 | 1892- Boston     .680 | 1906- Chicago    .765
1879- Providence .702 | 1893- Boston     .667 | 1907- Chicago    .704
1880- Chicago    .798 | 1894- Baltimore  .695 | 1908- Chicago    .643
1881- Chicago    .667 | 1895- Baltimore  .669 | 1909- Pittsburgh .724
1882- Chicago    .655 | 1896- Baltimore  .698 | 1910- Chicago    .676
1883- Boston     .643 | 1897- Boston     .795 | 1911- New York   .647
1884- Providence .750 | 1898- Boston     .685 |

INDIVIDUAL BATTING.

Following are the Official Batting Averages of National League players
who participated in any manner in at least fifteen championship games
during the season of 1912:

Name and Club          G.  A.B.  R.  H.  T.B. 2B  3B  HR  SH  SB  PC
Zimmerman, Chicago    145  557   95 207  318  41  14  14  18  23 .372
Meyers, New York      126  371   60 133  177  16   5   6   9   8 .358
Sweeney, Boston       153  593   84 204  264  81  13   1  33  27 .344
Evers, Chicago        143  478   73 163  211  23  11   1  14  16 .341
Bresnaban, St. Louis   48  108    8  36   50   7   2   1  --   4 .333
McCormick, New York    42   39    4  13   19   4   1  --  --   1 .333
Doyle, New York       143  558   98 184  263  33   8  10  13  36 .330
Kuisely, Cincinnati    21   67   10  22   35   7   8  --   1   3 .328
Lobert, Philadelphia   65  257   37  84  112  12   5   2  10  13 .327
Wiltse, New York       28   46    5  15   17   2  --  --   1   1 .326
Wagner, Pittsburgh    145  558   91 181  277  36  20   7  11  26 .324
Hendrix, Pittsburgh    46  121   25  39   64  10   6   1   2   1 .322
Kirke, Boston         103  359   53 115  146  11   4   4   9   7 .320
Kelly, Pittsburgh      48  132   20  42   52   3   2   1   7   8 .318
Marsans, Cincinnati   110  416   59 132  168  19   7   1   9  35 .317
Kling, Boston          81  252   26  80  102  10   3   2   7   8 .317
Donlin, Pittsburgh     77  244   27  77  108   9   8   2  10   8 .316
Stengel, Brooklyn      17   57    9  38   22   1  --   1   1   5 .316
Paskert, Philadelphia 145  540  102 170  221  38   5   1  11  35 .315
Konetchy, St. Louis   143  538   81 169  245  26  13   8  17  35 .314
Crandall, New York     50   80    9  25   25   6   2  --   3  -- .313
Titus,
  Philadelphia-Boston 141  502   99 155  224  32  11   5  15  11 .309
Merkle, New York      129  479   82 148  215  22   6  11   8  37 .309
Daubert, Brooklyn     145  559   81 173  232  19  16   3  14  39 .308

W. Miller, Chicago     86  241   45  74   93  11   4  --   8  11 .307
S. Magee, Phila       132  464   79 142  203  25   9   6  29  30 .306
Wheat, Brooklyn       123  453   70 138  204  28   7   8   7  16 .305
Huggins, St. Louis    120  431   82 131  154  15   4  --  11  35 .304
Carey, Pittsburgh     150  587  114 177  231  23   8   5  37  45 .302
Edington, Pittsburgh   15   53    4  16   20  --   2  --   3  -- .302
Simon, Pittsburgh      42  113   10  34   38   2   1  --  --   1 .301



***